name;level;type;ritual;casting_time;casting_time_comment;range;components;components_comment;duration;duration_comment;discription
GustofWind;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a legu m e seed;1 minutes;-;A line of stron g w in d 60 feet lon g and 10 feet wideA line of stron g w in d 60 feet lon g and 10 feet wideblasts from you in a direction you ch oose for the spellsduration. E ach creatu re that starts its turn in the linem ust su cceed on a Stren gth saving th row or be pu sh ed15 feet away from you in a direction followin g the line.An y crea tu re in the line m ust spen d 2 feet ofm ovem en t for every 1 foot it m oves wh en m ovin gcloser to you.Th e gust disper ses gas or vapor, and it extin gu ish esca n dles, torches, and sim ilar u n protected fla m es inthe area. It ca u ses protected flam es, su ch as th ose oflanterns, to da n ce wildly and has a 50 percen t ch a n ce toextin gu ish them .As a bon u s action on each of your turns before thespell ends, you can ch a n ge the direction in wh ich theline blasts from you.
DestructiveWave;5;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;instant;-;You strike the ground, crea tin g a burst of divineYou strike the ground, crea tin g a burst of divineen ergy that ripples ou tward from you. E a ch creatureyou ch oose within 30 feet of you m ust su cceed on aConstitution saving th row or take 5d6 thunder dam age,as well as 5d6 radiant or n ecrotic da m age (you r choice),and be k n ock ed prone. A creatu re that su cceeds onits saving th row takes h a lf as m u ch da m age and isntkn ock ed prone.
Resurrection;7;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;a dia m on d worth at least 1,000gp, w h ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;You tou ch a dead creatu re that has been dead for noYou tou ch a dead creatu re that has been dead for nom ore than a century, that didn t die of old age, and thatisn t undead. If its sou l is free and willing, the targetretu rn s to life with all its hit points.Th is spell n eu tra lizes any p oison s and cu res norm aldisea ses afflicting the creatu re wh en it died. It d oesn t,however, rem ove m a gica l disea ses, cu rses, and the likeif su ch effects arent rem oved prior to ca stin g the spell,they afflict the target on its return to life.Th is spell closes all m ortal w ou n ds and restores anym issin g body parts.Com in g ba ck from the dead is an ordeal. Th e targettakes a -4 pen alty to all attack rolls, saving throws, andability ch ecks. Every tim e the target fin ish es a lon g rest,the pen alty is redu ced by 1 until it disappears.Casting th is spell to restore life to a creatu re that hasbeen dead for on e year or lon ger taxes you greatly. Untilyou finish a lon g rest, you ca n t cast spells again, andyou have disadvantage on all attack rolls, ability ch ecks,and saving throws.
AuraofVitality;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;H ealin g en ergy radiates from you in an aura with aH ealin g en ergy radiates from you in an aura with a30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura m oves withyou, cen tered on you. You ca n u se a bon u s action toca u se on e creatu re in the aura (in cluding you) to regain2d6 hit points.
ZoneofTruth;2;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;-
SilentImage;1;illusion;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a bit of fleece;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You create the im age of an object, a creature, or som eYou create the im age of an object, a creature, or som eoth er visible ph en om en on that is n o larger than a 15-footcube. Th e im age appears at a spot within ran ge andlasts for the duration. Th e im age is purely visual it isnta ccom pa n ied by sou n d, sm ell, or oth er sen sory effects.You can u se your action to ca u se the im age to m ove toany spot within range. As the im a ge ch a n ges location,you ca n alter its a ppearan ce so that its m ovem en tsappear natural for the im age. F or exam ple, if you createan im age of a creatu re and m ove it, you can alter theim age so that it appears to be walking.P h ysica l in teraction with the im age reveals it to be anillusion, beca u se th in gs ca n pa ss th rough it. A creatu rethat u ses its action to exa m in e the im age ca n determ inethat it is an illusion with a su ccessfu l Intelligence(Investigation) ch eck against you r spell save DC. If acrea tu re discern s the illusion for what it is, the creatu reca n see th rough the im age.
Tsunami;8;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;sight;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 6 rou n ds'];A wall of water sprin gs into existen ce at a poin t youA wall of water sprin gs into existen ce at a poin t youch oose within range. You can m ake the wall up to 300feet long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. Th e wall lastsfor the duration.W h en the wall appears, each creatu re within its aream ust m ake a Stren gth saving throw. On a failed save,a creatu re takes 6 d10 blu dgeon in g dam age, or h a lf asm u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l save.At the start of each of your turns after the wallappears, the wall, alon g with any crea tu res in it, m oves50 feet away from you. An y H uge or sm aller creatu rein side the wall or w h ose spa ce the wall enters wh enit m oves m ust su cceed on a Stren gth saving th row ortake 5 d10 blu dgeon in g dam age. A crea tu re ca n takethis da m age on ly on ce per round. At the en d of the turn,the wa lls height is redu ced by 50 feet, and the dam agecrea tu res take from the spell on su bsequ en t rou n ds isredu ced by 1d10. Wh en the wall rea ch es 0 feet in height,the spell ends.A creatu re caught in the wall ca n m ove by swim m in g.Beca u se of the force of the wave, though, the creatu rem ust m ake a su ccessfu l Stren gth (Athletics) ch eckagainst your spell save DC in order to m ove at all. If itfails the ch eck, it ca n t m ove. A creatu re that m oves outof the area falls to the ground.
ChainLightning;6;evocation;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;a bit of fur a piece of am ber,glass, or a crystal rod and th ree silver pins;instant;-;You crea te a bolt of ligh tn in g that a rcs toward a target ofYou crea te a bolt of ligh tn in g that a rcs toward a target ofyou r ch oice that you can see within range. Th ree boltsthen leap from that target to as m any as th ree oth ertargets, ea ch of wh ich m ust be with in 30 feet of the firsttarget. A target ca n be a crea tu re or an object and canbe targeted by on ly on e of the bolts.A target m ust m a ke a Dexterity saving throw. Th etarget takes 10d8 lightning da m age on a failed save, orh a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin ga spell slot of 7th level or higher, on e additional boltlea ps from the first target to an oth er target for ea ch slotlevel above 6th.
StormofVengeance;9;conjuration;-;1 action;-;sight;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A ch u rn in g storm clou d form s, cen tered on a poin t youA ch u rn in g storm clou d form s, cen tered on a poin t youca n see and sprea din g to a radius of 360 feet. Lightningflash es in the area, thunder boom s, and stron g win dsroar. E ach crea tu re u nder the clou d (no m ore than 5,000feet ben eath the clou d) wh en it a ppears m ust m ake aConstitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creatureta kes 2d6 thunder da m age and becom es dea fen edfor 5 m inutes.E ach roun d you m aintain con cen tra tion on this spell,the storm pr odu ces additional effects on you r turn.Round 2. Acidic rain falls from the cloud.E ach crea tu re and object under the clou d takes1d6 acid dam age.R ound 3. You ca ll six bolts of lightning from theclou d to strike six crea tu res or objects of you r ch oiceben eath the clou d. A given creatu re or object ca n t bestru ck by m ore than on e bolt. A stru ck crea tu re mustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. Th e crea tu re takes10d6 lightning da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m u chda m age on a su ccessfu l one.R ound 4. H ailston es rain down from thecloud. E a ch creatu re u nder the clou d takes 2d6blu dgeon in g dam age.R ound 5-10. Gusts and freezin g rain assa il thearea u nder the cloud. Th e area becom es difficultterrain and is heavily obscu red. E a ch creatu re theretakes 1d6 cold dam age. Ra n ged w ea pon attacks inthe area are im possible. Th e win d and rain cou n t asa severe distraction for the pu rposes of m aintainingcon cen tra tion on spells. Finally, gusts of stron g wind(ranging from 20 to 50 m iles per hour) autom aticallydisperse fog, m ists, and sim ilar ph en om en a in the area,wh eth er m u n dan e or m agical.
Banishment;4;abjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;an item distasteful to the target;1 minutes;-;You attem pt to sen d on e creatu re that you ca n seeYou attem pt to sen d on e creatu re that you ca n seewithin ran ge to another plane of existen ce. Th etarget m ust su cceed on a Ch arism a saving th rowor be banish ed.If the target is native to the plane of existen ce you reon, you banish the target to a h a rm less dem iplane.W h ile there, the target is in capacitated. Th e targetrem ain s there until the spell ends, at wh ich point thetarget reappea rs in the spa ce it left or in the n earestu n occu pied spa ce if that spa ce is occu pied.If the target is native to a different plane of existen cethan the on e you re on, the target is ba n ish ed witha faint poppin g n oise, retu rn in g to its h om e plane.If the spell en ds before 1 m inute h as pa ssed, thetarget rea ppea rs in the spa ce it left or in the n earestu n occu pied spa ce if that spa ce is occu pied. Oth erwise,the target doesn t return.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 5th level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional crea tu re for ea ch slot level above 4th.
Forcecage;7;evocation;-;1 action;-;100 feet;V,S,M;ruby dust worth 1,500 gp;1 hour;-;An im m obile, invisible, cu be-sh a ped prison com p osed ofAn im m obile, invisible, cu be-sh a ped prison com p osed ofm agical for ce sprin gs into existen ce arou nd an area youch oose within range. Th e prison can be a ca ge or a solidbox, as you ch oose.A prison in the sh ape of a ca ge ca n be up to 20 feet ona side and is m ade from 1/2-inch diam eter ba rs spa ced1/2 inch apart.A prison in the sh ape of a box ca n be up to 10 feet ona side, crea tin g a solid ba rrier that prevents any matterfrom pa ssin g through it and block in g any spells cast intoor out from the area.W h en you cast the spell, any crea tu re that iscom pletely inside the ca ges area is trapped. Creatureson ly partially with in the area, or th ose too large to fitin side the area, are pu sh ed away from the cen ter of thearea until they are com pletely ou tside the area.A creatu re inside the ca ge ca n t leave it by n on m a gica lm ea n s. If the creatu re tries to u se teleportation orinterplanar travel to leave the cage, it m ust first m ake aCh arism a saving throw. On a su ccess, the creature canuse that m agic to exit the cage. On a failure, the creaturecant exit the cage and wastes the u se of the spell oreffect. Th e ca ge also exten ds into the E thereal Plane,block in g eth ereal travel.Th is spell ca n t be dispelled by  dispel m agic.
WallofIce;6;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a sm all piece of quartz;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You create a wall of ice on a solid su rfa ce within range.You create a wall of ice on a solid su rfa ce within range.You ca n form it into a h em isph erical dom e or a spherewith a radius of up to 10 feet, or you ca n sh ape a flatsu rfa ce m ade up of ten 10-foot-squ are panels. E achpanel m ust be con tigu ou s with an oth er panel. In anyform , the wall is 1 foot thick and lasts for the duration.If the wall cuts th rough a crea tu res spa ce wh en itappears, the creatu re within its area is pu sh ed to on eside of the wall and m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw.On a failed save, the creatu re takes 10d6 cold dam age,or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l save.Th e wall is an object that ca n be da m aged and thusbreach ed. It has AC 12 and 30 hit poin ts per 10-footsection , and it is vuln erable to fire dam age. Redu cin ga 10-foot section of wall to 0 hit poin ts destroys it andlea ves beh in d a sh eet of frigid air in the spa ce the walloccu pied. A crea tu re m ovin g th rou gh the sh eet of frigidair for the first tim e on a turn m ust m ake a Constitutionsaving throw. That creatu re takes 5d6 cold da m age on afailed save, or h alf as m uch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sing aspell slot of 7th level or higher, the da m age the walldea ls w h en it appears in crea ses by 2d6, and the dam agefrom pa ssin g th rough the sh eet of frigid air in crea ses by1d6, for each slot level above 6th.
Longstrider;1;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a pin ch of dirt;1 hour;-;You touch a creatu re. Th e targets sp eed in crea ses by 10You touch a creatu re. Th e targets sp eed in crea ses by 10feet until the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional crea tu re for each slot level above 1st.
LocateAnimalsorPlants;2;divination;True;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a bit of fur from a bloodh ou n d;instant;-;D escr ibe or nam e a specific kind of beast or plant.D escr ibe or nam e a specific kind of beast or plant.Con centratin g on the voice of nature in yoursu rrou n din gs, you learn the direction and dista n ce tothe closest crea tu re or plant of that kind within 5 m iles,if any are present.
GreaterRestoration;5;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;diam on d dust w orth at least 100gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;You im bu e a crea tu re you tou ch with positive en ergy toYou im bu e a crea tu re you tou ch with positive en ergy tou ndo a debilitating effect. You ca n redu ce the targetsexhaustion level by one, or en d on e of the followin geffects on the target:• One effect that ch a rm ed or petrified the target• One cu rse, in cluding the targets attunem ent to acu r sed m a gic item• Any redu ction to on e of the targets ability scor es• One effect redu cin g the targets hit poin t m a xim u m
PhantomSteed;3;illusion;True;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A Large quasi-real, h orselike creatu re appears onA Large quasi-real, h orselike creatu re appears onthe grou n d in an u n occu pied spa ce of you r ch oicewithin range. You decide the crea tu res appearan ce,but it is equ ipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Anyof the equipm ent created by the spell van ish es in apu ff of sm oke if it is ca rried m ore than 10 feet awayfrom the steed.F or the duration, you or a creatu re you ch oose canride the steed. Th e creatu re u ses the statistics for aridin g h orse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and cantravel 10 m iles in an hour, or 13 m iles at a fast pace.W h en the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, givingthe rider 1 m inute to dism ount. Th e spell en ds if you u sean action to dism iss it or if the steed takes any dam age.
DominateBeast;4;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attem pt to begu ile a bea st that you can see withinYou attem pt to begu ile a bea st that you can see withinrange. It m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row or bech a rm ed by you for the duration. If you or crea tu res thatare friendly to you are fighting it, it h as advantage on thesaving throw.W h ile the bea st is ch a rm ed, you have a telepathic linkwith it as lon g as the two of you are on the sa m e planeof existence. You ca n u se this telepathic link to issu ecom m a n ds to the creatu re wh ile you are con sciou s (noaction requ ired), wh ich it does its best to obey. You canspecify a sim ple and gen eral cou r se of action, su ch as“Attack that creatu re,” “Run over th ere,” or “Fetch thatobject.” If the creatu re com pletes the order and doesn treceive further direction from you, it defen ds andpr eserves itself to the best of its ability.You ca n u se your action to take total and precisecon trol of the target. Until the en d of your next turn, thecrea tu re ta kes on ly the actions you ch oose, and doesn tdo anything that you don t allow it to do. Du rin g thistim e, you can a lso ca u se the creatu re to u se a reaction,but this requ ires you to u se your own reaction as well.E a ch tim e the target takes dam age, it m a kes a n ewW isdom saving th row against the spell. If the savingth row su cceeds, the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell with a5th level spell slot, the duration is con cen tra tion , upto 10 m inutes. W h en you u se a 6th level spell slot,the duration is con cen tra tion , up to 1 hour. W h en youu se a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration iscon cen tra tion , up to 8 hours.
Maze;8;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You ba n ish a crea tu re that you ca n see within range intoYou ba n ish a crea tu re that you ca n see within range intoa labyrinthine dem iplane. Th e target rem ain s there forthe duration or until it esca p es the m aze.Th e target can u se its action to attempt to esca pe.W h en it does so, it m a kes a DC 20 In telligen ce ch eck. Ifit su cceeds, it esca pes, and the spell en ds (a m inotau r orgoristro dem on autom atically su cceeds).Wh en the spell ends, the target reappea rs in thespa ce it left or, if that spa ce is occu pied, in the n earestu n occu pied space.
Clairvoyance;3;divination;-;10 minutes;-;1 mile;V,S,M;a focu s worth at least 100gp, either a jew eled h orn for h earin g or a glasseye for seein g;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You create an invisible sen sor within ran ge in a locationYou create an invisible sen sor within ran ge in a locationfam iliar to you (a pla ce you have visited or seen before)or in an obviou s loca tion that is unfam iliar to you (suchas beh in d a door, a rou n d a corn er, or in a grove of trees).Th e sen sor rem ain s in pla ce for the duration, and itca n t be attacked or oth erwise in teracted with.W h en you cast the spell, you ch oose seein g orhearing. You ca n u se the ch osen sen se th rough thesen sor as if you were in its spa ce. As you r action, youca n switch between seein g and hearing.A creatu re that ca n see the sen sor (such as a creatureben efiting from see  invisibility or truesight) sees alu m in ou s, intangible orb about the size of you r fist.
MageHand;0;Conjuration;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you ch ooseA spectral, floating hand appears at a point you ch oosewithin range. Th e hand lasts for the duration or untilyou dism iss it as an action. Th e hand van ish es if it isever m ore than 30 feet away from you or if you castthis spell again.You ca n u se you r action to con trol the hand. You canu se the hand to m anipulate an object, open an u n lockeddoor or container, stow or retrieve an item from an opencontainer, or pou r the contents out of a vial. You canm ove the hand up to 30 feet each tim e you u se it.Th e hand ca n t attack, activate m a gic item s, or carrym ore than 10 pou n ds.
Heal;6;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;C h oose a crea tu re that you can see within range. AC h oose a crea tu re that you can see within range. Asu rge of positive en ergy wa sh es th rou gh the creature,cau sin g it to regain 70 hit points. Th is spell a lso endsblin dn ess, dea fn ess, and any disea ses affecting thetarget. Th is spell has n o effect on con stru cts or undead.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 7th level or higher, the am ount of healingin crea ses by 10 for ea ch slot level above 6th.
MeteorSwarm;9;evocation;-;1 action;-;1 mile;V,S;-;instant;-;Blazin g orbs of fire plum m et to the grou n d at fourBlazin g orbs of fire plum m et to the grou n d at fourdifferent poin ts you ca n see with in range. E ach creatu rein a 40-foot-radiu s sph ere cen tered on ea ch poin t youch oose m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. Th e spheresprea ds arou nd corn ers. A creatu re takes 20d6 fireda m age and 20d6 blu dgeon in g da m age on a failedsave, or h a lf as m uch da m age on a su ccessfu l one. Acreatu re in the area of m ore than on e fiery burst isaffected on ly on ce.Th e spell da m a ges objects in the area and ignitesflam m able objects that aren t bein g worn or carried.
EldritchBlast;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A bea m of cra cklin g en ergy strea ks toward a creatureA bea m of cra cklin g en ergy strea ks toward a creaturewithin range. Make a ran ged spell attack against thetarget. On a hit, the target takes 1dlO force dam age.Th e spell crea tes m ore than on e bea m w h en you reachhigh er levels: two bea m s at 5th level, th ree bea m s at11th level, and fou r bea m s at 17th level. You can directthe bea m s at the sa m e target or at different on es. Makea separate attack roll for ea ch beam .
MindBlank;8;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;24 hours;-;Until the spell ends, on e willin g creatu re you tou ch isUntil the spell ends, on e willin g creatu re you tou ch isim m u n e to psych ic dam age, any effect that wou ld sen seits em otion s or read its thoughts, divination spells, andthe ch a rm ed condition . Th e spell even foils  wish spellsand spells or effects of sim ilar pow er u sed to affect thetargets m in d or to gain in form ation about the target.
PlaneShift;7;conjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a forked, m etal r od worth at least250 gp, attuned to a particu lar plane of existence;instant;-;You and up to eight willin g crea tu res wh o link h an ds inYou and up to eight willin g crea tu res wh o link h an ds ina circle are tran sported to a different plane of existence.You ca n specify a target destination in general term s,su ch as the City of Brass on the E lem ental P la n e ofF ire or the pa lace of Dispater on the secon d level of theNine H ells, and you appear in or n ear that destination.If you are trying to reach the City of Brass, for exam ple,you m ight arrive in its Street of Steel, before its Gate ofAsh es, or look in g at the city from a cr oss the S ea of Fire,at the DM s discretion.Alternatively, if you k n ow the sigil sequ en ce of ateleportation circle on an oth er plane of existen ce, thisspell can take you to that circle. If the teleportationcircle is too sm all to h old all the crea tu res youtran sported, they appear in the closest u n occu piedspa ces next to the circle.You can u se this spell to ba n ish an u nwillin g creatureto an oth er plane. C h oose a creatu re within you r reachand m ake a m elee spell attack against it. On a hit, thecrea tu re m ust m ake a Ch arism a saving throw. If thecrea tu re fails this save, it is tran sported to a ran domloca tion on the plane of existen ce you specify. A creatu reso tran sported m ust find its own way ba ck to yourcurrent plane of existence.
ConjureElemental;5;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S,M;bu rn in g in cen se for air, soft clayfor earth, su lfu r and ph osph oru s for fire, or water andsan d for water;1 hour;-;You call forth an elem ental servant. Ch oose an area of air,You call forth an elem ental servant. Ch oose an area of air,earth, fire, or water that fills a 10-foot cu be within range.An elem ental of challen ge rating 5 or lower appropriateto the area you ch ose appears in an u n occu pied spacewithin 10 feet of it. F or exam ple, a fire elem entalem erges from a bon fire, and an earth elem ental risesup from the ground. Th e elem ental disa ppea rs wh en itdr ops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.Th e elem ental is friendly to you and you r com pa n ion sfor the duration. Roll initiative for the elem ental, whichhas its own turns. It obeys any verbal com m a n ds thatyou issu e to it (no action requ ired by you). If you don tissu e any com m a n ds to the elem ental, it defen ds itselffrom h ostile crea tu res but oth erwise takes n o actions.If your con cen tra tion is broken, the elem ental d oesn tdisappear. Instead, you lose con trol of the elem ental,it becom es h ostile toward you and you r com pa n ion s,and it m ight attack. An u n con trolled elem ental ca n tbe dism issed by you, and it disa ppea rs 1 h ou r afteryou su m m on ed it.Th e DM h as the elem entals statistics.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 6th level or higher, the ch a llen ge ratingin crea ses by 1 for ea ch slot level above 5th.d10 Behavior1 The creature uses all its movement to move in arandom direction. To determine the direction, rolla d8 and assign a direction to each die face. Thecreature doesnt take an action this turn.2-6 The creature doesnt move or take actions this turn.7-8 The creature uses its action to make a melee attackagainst a randomly determined creature within itsreach. If there is no creature within its reach, thecreature does nothing this turn.9-10 The creature can act and move normally.
Entangle;1;conjuration;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Gra spin g w eeds and vin es sprou t from the grou n d in aGra spin g w eeds and vin es sprou t from the grou n d in a20-foot squ a re startin g from a poin t within range. F orthe duration, th ese plants turn the grou n d in the areainto difficult terrain.A crea tu re in the area wh en you cast the spell m ustsu cceed on a Stren gth saving th row or be restrainedby the en tan glin g plants until the spell ends. A creatu rerestrain ed by the plants ca n u se its action to m akea Stren gth ch eck against you r spell save DC. On asu ccess, it frees itself.Wh en the spell ends, the con ju red plants wilt away.
ContinualFlame;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;ruby dust worth 50 gp, wh ich thespell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;A flam e, equivalent in brigh tn ess to a torch, sprin gsA flam e, equivalent in brigh tn ess to a torch, sprin gsforth from an object that you touch. Th e effect look s likea regu lar flam e, but it crea tes n o heat and d oesn t useoxygen. A  continual flam e can be covered or hidden butnot sm oth ered or quenched.
ExpeditiousRetreat;1;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];Th is spell allows you to m ove at an in credible pace.Th is spell allows you to m ove at an in credible pace.W h en you cast this spell, and then as a bon u s actionon ea ch of your turns until the spell ends, you ca n takethe Dash action.
Sunbeam;6;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a m a gn ifyin g glass;1 minutes;-;A bea m of brilliant light flash es out from your handA bea m of brilliant light flash es out from your handin a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-lon g line. E a ch crea tu re inthe line m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw. On afailed save, a creatu re takes 6d8 radiant da m age andis blin ded until you r next turn. On a su ccessfu l save,it takes h a lf as m u ch da m age and isn t blin ded by thisspell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on thissaving throw.You can crea te a n ew line of radia n ce as your actionon any turn until the spell ends.F or the duration, a m ote of brilliant radia n ce sh in es inyou r hand. It sh eds bright light in a 30-foot radius anddim light for an additional 30 feet. Th is light is sunlight.
FlamingSphere;2;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a bit of tallow, a pin ch ofbrim ston e, and a dusting of pow dered iron;1 minutes;-;A 5-foot-diam eter sph ere of fire appears in anA 5-foot-diam eter sph ere of fire appears in anu n occu pied spa ce of your ch oice within ran ge and lastsfor the duration. An y creatu re that en ds its turn with in 5feet of the sph ere m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw.Th e crea tu re takes 2d6 fire da m age on a failed save, orh a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.As a bon u s action, you ca n m ove the sph ere up to 30feet. If you ram the sph ere into a creatu re, that creaturem ust m ake the saving th row against the sph eresdam age, and the sph ere stops m ovin g this turn.Wh en you m ove the sphere, you ca n direct it overba rriers up to 5 feet tall and ju m p it a cr oss pits up to10 feet wide. Th e sph ere ignites flam m able objects notbein g w orn or carried, and it sh eds bright light in a20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
RaiseDead;5;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;a dia m on d worth at least 500 gp,wh ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;You return a dead crea tu re you tou ch to life, providedYou return a dead crea tu re you tou ch to life, providedthat it has been dead n o lon ger than 10 days. If thecrea tu res sou l is both willin g and at liberty to rejoin thebody, the creatu re retu rn s to life with 1 hit point.Th is spell also n eu tra lizes any poison s and cu resn on m a gica l disea ses that affected the crea tu re at thetim e it died. Th is spell d oesn t, however, rem ove m a gica ldisea ses, cu rses, or sim ilar effects if th ese arent firstrem oved prior to castin g the spell, they take effect wh enthe creatu re returns to life. Th e spell ca n t return anundead creatu re to life.Th is spell closes all m ortal w ou n ds, but it d oesn trestore m issin g body parts. If the crea tu re is lackin gbody parts or orga n s integral for its survivalits head,for in sta n cethe spell autom atically fails.Com in g ba ck from the dead is an ordeal. Th e targettakes a -4 penalty to all attack rolls, saving th rows, andability ch eck s. E very tim e the target fin ish es a lon g rest,the pen alty is redu ced by 1 until it disappears.
Counterspell;3;abjuration;-;1 reaction;ct comment;60 feet;S;-;instant;-;You attem pt to interrupt a creatu re in the p r ocess ofYou attem pt to interrupt a creatu re in the p r ocess ofcastin g a spell. If the creatu re is castin g a spell of 3rdlevel or lower, its spell fails and has n o effect. If it iscastin g a spell of 4th level or higher, m ake an abilitych eck u sin g your spellca stin g ability. Th e DC equ als 10+ the spells level. On a su ccess, the crea tu res spell failsand has n o effect.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the interrupted spell hasno effect if its level is less than or equ al to the level of thespell slot you used.
Imprisonment;9;abjuration;-;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a vellum depiction or a ca rvedstatuette in the liken ess of the target, and a specia lcom pon en t that varies a ccordin g to the version of thespell you ch oose, worth at least 500 gp per Hit Dieof the target;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You crea te a m a gica l restraint to h old a creatu re thatYou crea te a m a gica l restraint to h old a creatu re thatyou can see within range. Th e target m ust su cceed ona W isdom saving th row or be bou n d by the spell if itsu cceeds, it is im m u n e to this spell if you cast it again.W h ile affected by this spell, the creatu re doesn t n eedto breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn t age. Divinationspells ca n t locate or perceive the target.W h en you cast the spell, you ch oose on e of thefollowin g form s of im prison m en t.Burial. Th e target is en tom bed far ben eath the earthin a sph ere of m a gica l force that is ju st large en ou gh tocontain the target. N othin g can pa ss th rough the sphere,n or ca n any creatu re teleport or u se planar travel to getinto or out of it.Th e specia l com pon en t for this version of the spell is asm all m ithral orb.Chaining. H eavy chains, firm ly r ooted in the ground,hold the target in pla ce. Th e target is restrained untilthe spell ends, and it ca n t m ove or be m oved by anym ea n s until then.Th e specia l com pon en t for this version of the spell is afine chain of preciou s metal.H edged Prison. Th e spell tran sports the target intoa tiny dem ipla n e that is warded against teleportationand planar travel. Th e dem iplane ca n be a labyrinth, acage, a tower, or any sim ilar con fin ed stru ctu re or areaof your ch oice.Th e specia l com pon en t for this version of the spell is am iniature representation of the prison m ade from jade.M inim us Containm ent. Th e target sh rin ks to a heightof 1 inch and is im prison ed in side a gem ston e or sim ilarobject. Light ca n pa ss th rou gh the gem ston e norm ally(allowin g the target to see out and oth er crea tu res to seein), but n oth ing else ca n pa ss th rough, even by m ea n s ofteleportation or planar travel. Th e gem ston e ca n t be cutor broken wh ile the spell rem ain s in effect.Th e specia l com pon en t for this version of the spellis a large, transparent gem stone, su ch as a coru n du m ,diam on d, or ruby.Slumber. Th e target falls asleep and ca n t be awoken.Th e specia l com pon en t for this version of the spellcon sists of rare soporific herbs.Ending the Spell. Durin g the castin g of the spell,in any of its version s, you ca n specify a con dition thatwill ca u se the spell to en d and release the target. Thecon dition can be as specific or as elaborate as youch oose, but the DM m ust agree that the con dition isrea son a ble and has a likelih ood of com in g to pa ss. Th econ dition s ca n be ba sed on a crea tu res nam e, identity,or deity but oth erwise m ust be ba sed on observa bleaction s or qualities and not ba sed on intangibles su ch aslevel, cla ss, or hit points.A  dispel m agic spell ca n end the spell on ly if it is castas a 9th level spell, targeting either the prison or thespecia l com pon en t u sed to create it.You ca n u se a particu la r specia l com pon en t to createon ly on e prison at a tim e. If you cast the spell againu sing the sa m e com pon en t, the target of the first castin gis im m ediately freed from its binding.
Daylight;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A 60-foot-radiu s sph ere of light sprea ds out from a pointA 60-foot-radiu s sph ere of light sprea ds out from a pointyou ch oose within range. Th e sph ere is bright light andsh eds dim light for an additional 60 feet.If you ch ose a poin t on an object you are h oldin g oron e that isn t bein g w orn or carried, the light sh in esfrom the object and m oves with it. Com pletely coverin gthe affected object with an opa qu e object, su ch as a bowlor a helm , block s the light.If any of this spells area overlaps with an area ofda rkn ess crea ted by a spell of 3rd level or lower, thespell that created the da rkn ess is dispelled.
ConjureVolley;5;conjuration;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;one piece of am m u nition or on ethrown weapon ;instant;-;You fire a piece of n on m agica l am m u nition from aYou fire a piece of n on m agica l am m u nition from aranged wea pon or th row a n on m a gica l w ea pon intothe air and ch oose a poin t within range. H u n dreds ofduplicates of the am m u nition or w ea pon fall in a volleyfrom above and then disappear. E ach crea tu re in a40-foot-radiu s. 20-foot-h igh cylinder cen tered on thatpoin t m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. A creaturetakes 8d8 da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m uchda m age on a su ccessfu l one. Th e da m age type is thesa m e as that of the am m u nition or weapon .
MordenkainensFaithfulHound;4;conjuration;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a tiny silver whistle, a piece ofbon e, and a thread;8 hours;-;You con ju re a phantom wa tch dog in an u n occu piedYou con ju re a phantom wa tch dog in an u n occu piedspa ce that you ca n see with in range, wh ere it rem ain sfor the duration, until you dism iss it as an action, or untilyou m ove m ore than 100 feet away from it.Th e h ou n d is invisible to all crea tu res except youand cant be h arm ed. W h en a Sm a ll or larger creaturecom es within 30 feet of it without first spea k in g thepa ssw ord that you sp ecify wh en you cast this spell, theh ou n d starts barking loudly. Th e h ou n d sees invisiblecrea tu res and ca n see into the E thereal P lane. Itign ores illusions.At the start of each of you r turns, the h oun d attem ptsto bite on e creatu re within 5 feet of it that is h ostileto you. Th e h ou n ds attack bon u s is equ al to yourspellcastin g ability m odifier + your proficien cy bon u s.On a hit, it deals 4d8 piercin g dam age.
Darkness;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,M;bat fur and a drop of pitch orpiece of coal;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];M agica l da rkn ess sprea ds from a point you ch ooseM agica l da rkn ess sprea ds from a point you ch oosewith in ran ge to fill a 15-foot-radius sphere for theduration. Th e da rkn ess sprea ds arou nd corn ers.A creatu re with darkvision ca n t see th rough thisdarkn ess, and n on m a gica l light ca n t illum inate it.If the poin t you ch oose is on an object you are h oldin gor on e that isn t bein g w orn or carried, the da rkn essem anates from the object and m oves with it. Com pletelycoverin g the sou r ce of the da rkn ess with an opaqu eobject, su ch as a bow l or a helm , block s the darkn ess.If any of this spells area overlaps with an area of lightcreated by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell thatcreated the light is dispelled.
BeaconofHope;3;abjuration;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Th is spell bestow s h ope and vitality. C h oose anyTh is spell bestow s h ope and vitality. C h oose anyn u m ber of crea tu res within range. F or the duration,ea ch target h as advantage on W isdom saving th rowsan d death saving th rows, an d rega in s the m axim u mn u m ber of hit poin ts possible from any healing.
BurningHands;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;As you h old you r h an ds with th u m bs tou ch in g andAs you h old you r h an ds with th u m bs tou ch in g andfin gers spread, a thin sh eet of fla m es sh oots forth fromyou r ou tstretch ed fingertips. E ach creatu re in a 15-footcon e m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. A creatu retakes 3d6 fire da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m u chda m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th e fire ignites any flam m able objects in the area thatarent bein g w orn or carried.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by1d6 for ea ch slot level above 1st.
Compulsion;4;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Creatures of your ch oice that you can see within rangeCreatures of your ch oice that you can see within rangean d that ca n h ear you m ust m ake a W isdom savingthrow. A target autom atically su cceed s on this savingth row if it ca n t be ch a rm ed. On a failed save, a targetis affected by this spell. Until the spell en ds, you canu se a bon u s action on each of your tu rns to design ate adirection that is h orizon tal to you. E a ch affected targetm ust u se as m u ch of its m ovem en t as possible to m ovein that direction on its next turn. It ca n take its actionbefore it m oves. After m ovin g in this way, it ca n m akean oth er W isdom saving to try to end the effect.A target isn t com pelled to m ove into an obviou slydeadly hazard, su ch as a fire or pit, but it will provokeopportu n ity attacks to m ove in the design ated direction .
HoldPerson;2;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a sm all, straight piece of iron;1 minutes;-;C h oose a h u m an oid that you ca n see within range.C h oose a h u m an oid that you ca n see within range.Th e target m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th rowor be paralyzed for the duration. At the en d of ea ch ofits turns, the target ca n m ake an oth er W isdom savingthrow. On a su ccess, the spell en ds on the target.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional h u m an oid for ea ch slot level above 2nd. Theh u m an oids m ust be with in 30 feet of ea ch oth er wh enyou target them .
ControlWater;4;transmutation;-;1 action;-;300 feet;V,S,M;a drop of water and apin ch of dust;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];Until the spell ends, you con trol any freesta n din g waterUntil the spell ends, you con trol any freesta n din g waterin side an area you ch oose that is a cu be up to 100 feeton a side. You can ch oose from any of the followin geffects wh en you cast this spell. As an action on yourturn, you can repeat the sa m e effect or ch oose adifferent one.Flood. You cau se the water level of all standing water inthe area to rise by as m u ch as 20 feet. If the area includesa sh ore, the floodin g water spills over onto dry land.If you ch oose an area in a large body of water, youin stead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from oneside of the area to the oth er and then cra sh es down . AnyH uge or sm aller veh icles in the waves path are ca rriedwith it to the oth er side. An y Huge or sm aller veh iclesstruck by the wave have a 25 percen t ch a n ce of capsizing.Th e water level rem ain s elevated until the spell en dsor you ch oose a different effect. If this effect produ ceda wave, the wave repeats on the start of you r next turnwh ile the flood effect lasts.Part Water. You ca u se water in the area to m oveapart and create a trench. Th e trench exten ds a crossthe spells area, and the separated water form s a wall toeither side. Th e trench rem ain s until the spell en ds oryou ch oose a different effect. Th e water then slowly fillsin the tren ch over the cou r se of the next rou n d until then orm al water level is restored.R ed irect Flow. You ca u se flowin g water in the areato m ove in a direction you ch oose, even if the water hasto flow over obsta cles, up walls, or in oth er unlikelydirection s. Th e water in the area m oves as you directit, but on ce it m oves beyon d the spells area, it resu m esits flow ba sed on the terrain con dition s. Th e watercon tin u es to m ove in the direction you ch ose until thespell en ds or you ch oose a different effect.W hirlpool. Th is effect requ ires a body of waterat least 50 feet squ a re and 25 feet deep. You cau sea wh irlpool to form in the cen ter of the area. Thewh irlpool form s a vortex that is 5 feet w ide at theba se, up to 50 feet w ide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Anycrea tu re or object in the water and with in 25 feet of thevortex is pu lled 10 feet toward it. A creatu re can swimaway from the vortex by m a kin g a Stren gth (Athletics)ch eck against you r spell save DC.W h en a creatu re enters the vortex for the first tim e ona turn or starts its turn there, it m ust m ake a Stren gthsaving throw. On a failed save, the creatu re takes 2d8blu dgeon in g da m age and is cau gh t in the vortex untilthe spell ends. On a su ccessfu l save, the creatu re takesh alf dam age, and isn t caught in the vortex. A creaturecaught in the vortex ca n u se its action to try to swimaway from the vortex as descr ibed above, but hasdisadvantage on the Stren gth (Athletics) ch eck to do so.Th e first tim e each turn that an object enters thevortex, the object takes 2d8 blu dgeon in g dam age thisda m age occu r s each roun d it rem ain s in the vortex.
AcidSplash;0;Conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You hurl a bu bble of acid. C h oose on e crea tu re withinYou hurl a bu bble of acid. C h oose on e crea tu re withinrange, or ch oose two crea tu res within ran ge that arewithin 5 feet of ea ch other. A target m ust su cceed on aDexterity saving th row or take 1d6 acid dam age.Th is spells da m age in crea ses by 1d6 wh en you reach5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).
DetectMagic;1;divination;True;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];F or the duration, you sen se the pr esen ce of m a gicF or the duration, you sen se the pr esen ce of m a gicwithin 30 feet of you. If you sen se m a gic in this way, youca n u se you r action to see a faint aura arou nd any visiblecreatu re or object in the area that bea rs m agic, and youlearn its sch ool of m agic, if any.Th e spell ca n penetrate m ost barriers, but it is block edby 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of com m on m etal, a thin sheetof lead, or 3 feet of w ood or dirt.
FlameStrike;5;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;pin ch of sulfur;instant;-;A vertical colu m n of divine fire roars down from theA vertical colu m n of divine fire roars down from theh eavens in a location you specify. E a ch creatu re ina 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-h igh cylinder cen tered on apoint within ran ge m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw.A creatu re takes 4d6 fire da m age and 4d6 radiantda m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on asu ccessfu l one.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the fire da m age or theradiant da m age (you r ch oice) in crea ses by 1d6 for eachslot level above 5th.
SparetheDying;0;N;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;You tou ch a living crea tu re that has 0 hit points. TheYou tou ch a living crea tu re that has 0 hit points. Thecreatu re becom es stable. Th is spell has n o effect onu ndead or con stru cts.
Bless;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a sprin klin g of h oly water;1 minutes;-;You bless up to th ree crea tu res of you r ch oice withinYou bless up to th ree crea tu res of you r ch oice withinrange. Wh en ever a target m a kes an attack roll or asaving th row befor e the spell ends, the target ca n rolla d4 and add the n u m ber rolled to the attack roll orsaving throw.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2n d level or higher, you can target oneadditional crea tu re for ea ch slot level above 1st.
UnseenServant;1;conjuration;True;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a piece of string anda bit of w ood;1 hour;-;Th is spell crea tes an invisible, m in dless, sh apelessTh is spell crea tes an invisible, m in dless, sh apelessforce that perform s sim ple tasks at you r com m a n d untilthe spell ends. Th e servant sprin gs into existen ce in anu n occu pied spa ce on the grou n d within range. It has AC10, 1 hit point, and a Stren gth of 2, and it ca n t attack. Ifit dr ops to 0 hit points, the spell ends.On ce on each of your turns as a bon u s action, you canm entally com m a n d the servant to m ove up to 15 feet andinteract with an object. Th e servant can perform sim pletasks that a hum an servant cou ld do, su ch as fetch ingthings, clean in g, m ending, foldin g cloth es, lightingfires, servin g food, and pou rin g win e. On ce you give thecom m a n d, the servant perform s the task to the best ofits ability until it com pletes the task, then waits for yourn ext com m a n d.If you com m a n d the servant to perform a task thatwou ld m ove it m ore than 60 feet away from you,the spell ends.
Tongues;3;divination;-;1 action;-;touch;V,M;a sm all clay m odel of a ziggurat;1 hour;-;Th is spell grants the crea tu re you tou ch the ability toTh is spell grants the crea tu re you tou ch the ability tounderstan d any spoken language it hears. Moreover,wh en the target spea ks, any creatu re that k n ows atleast on e language and ca n h ear the target u nderstan dswhat it says.
PrismaticWall;9;abjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;A sh im m erin g, m u lticolored plane of light form s aA sh im m erin g, m u lticolored plane of light form s avertical opa qu e wallup to 90 feet long, 30 feet high,and 1 inch thickcen tered on a poin t you ca n seewithin range. Alternatively, you ca n sh ape the wall intoa sph ere up to 30 feet in diam eter cen tered on a pointyou ch oose within range. Th e wall rem ain s in pla ce forthe duration. If you position the wall so that it pa ssesth rou gh a spa ce occu pied by a creatu re, the spell fails,and you r action and the spell slot are wasted.Th e wall sh eds bright light out to a ran ge of 100feet and dim light for an additional 100 feet. You andcrea tu res you design ate at the tim e you cast the spellca n pa ss th rou gh and rem ain n ear the wall withoutharm . If an oth er crea tu re that ca n see the wall m oves towithin 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creatu rem ust su cceed on a Constitution saving th row or becom eblin ded for 1 minute.Th e wall con sists of seven layers, each with a differentcolor. W h en a creatu re attem pts to reach into or passth rou gh the wall, it does so on e layer at a tim e throughall the wa lls layers. As it pa sses or rea ch es througheach layer, the creatu re m ust m ake a Dexterity savingth row or be affected by that layers properties asdescr ibed below.Th e wall ca n be destroyed, a lso on e layer at a time, inorder from red to violet, by m ea n s specific to each layer.On ce a layer is destroyed, it rem ain s so for the durationof the spell. A  rod of cancellation destroys a  prism aticwall, but an  antim agic field h as n o effect on it.1. R ed. Th e creatu re takes 10d6 fire da m age on afailed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.W h ile this layer is in pla ce, n on m a gica l ran ged attacksca n t pa ss th rou gh the wall. Th e layer can be destroyedby dea lin g at least 25 cold da m age to it.2. Orange. Th e creatu re takes 10d6 acid da m age ona failed save, or h alf as m uch da m age on a su ccessfu lone. Wh ile this layer is in place, m a gica l ran ged attacksca n t pa ss th rough the wall. Th e layer is destroyed bya stron g wind.3. Yellow. Th e crea tu re takes 10d6 lightning dam ageon a failed save, or h alf as m uch da m age on a su ccessfu lon e. Th is layer ca n be destroyed by dea lin g at least 60force da m age to it.4. Green. Th e creatu re takes 10d6 poison da m age ona failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu lone. A  passwall spell, or an oth er spell of equ al orgreater level that can open a portal on a solid surface,destroys this layer.5. B lue. Th e creatu re takes 10d6 cold da m age on afailed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th is layer ca n be destroyed by dea lin g at least 25 fireda m age to it.6. Indigo. On a failed save, the creatu re is restrained.It m ust then m ake a Constitution saving th row at theend of each of its turns. If it su ccessfu lly sa ves th reetim es, the spell ends. If it fails its save th ree tim es,it perm anen tly turns to stone and is su bjected to thepetrified condition . Th e su ccesses and failures don tn eed to be con secu tive keep track of both until thecrea tu re collects th ree of a kind.W h ile this layer is in pla ce, spells ca n t be castth rough the wall. Th e layer is destroyed by bright lightsh ed by a  daylight spell or a sim ilar spell of equ al orh igh er level.7. Violet. On a failed save, the creatu re is blinded. Itm ust then m ake a W isdom saving th row at the start ofyour next turn. A su ccessfu l save en ds the blin dn ess. Ifit fails that save, the crea tu re is tran sported to anotherplane of the DM s ch oosin g and is n o lon ger blinded.(Typically, a creatu re that is on a plane that isn t itsh om e plane is ba n ish ed h om e, wh ile oth er crea tu resare usually cast into the Astral or E thereal planes.) Th islayer is destroyed by a  dispel m agic spell or a sim ilarspell of equ al or h igh er level that ca n en d spells andm a gica l effects.
AnimalMessenger;2;enchantment;True;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a m orsel of food;24 hours;-;By m ea n s of this spell, you u se an an im al to deliver aBy m ea n s of this spell, you u se an an im al to deliver am essa ge. C h oose a Tiny bea st you can see with in range,su ch as a squirrel, a blue jay, or a bat. You sp ecify alocation , wh ich you m ust have visited, and a recipientw h o m a tch es a general description , su ch as “a m an orw om a n dr essed in the u n iform of the town gu a rd” or “ared-haired dwa rf w ea rin g a poin ted hat.” You also spea ka m essa ge of up to twenty-five words. Th e target beasttravels for the duration of the spell toward the specifiedlocation, coverin g about 50 m iles per 24 h ou rs for aflying m essen ger, or 25 m iles for oth er anim als.W h en the m essen ger arrives, it delivers you r m essa geto the creatu re that you described, replicatin g the sou n dof you r voice. Th e m essen ger spea k s on ly to a creaturem atching the description you gave. If the m essen gerd oesn t reach its destination before the spell ends, them essa ge is lost, and the bea st m a kes its way ba ck towh ere you cast this spell.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell u sin g a spellslot of 3nd level or higher, the duration of the spellin crea ses by 48 h ou rs for ea ch slot level above 2nd.
HailofThorns;1;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a ran ged wea ponTh e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a ran ged wea ponattack before the spell en ds, this spell crea tes a rainof th orn s that sprou ts from your ran ged w ea pon oram m unition. In addition to the n orm a l effect of theattack, the target of the attack and each crea tu re within5 feet of it m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. Acrea tu re takes 1dlO piercin g da m age on a failed save, orh a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell u sin g a spellslot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by 1d10for each slot level above 1st (to a m a xim u m of 6 d10).
MeldintoStone;3;transmutation;True;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;8 hours;-;You step into a stone object or su rfa ce large en ou gh toYou step into a stone object or su rfa ce large en ou gh tofully con tain you r body, m eldin g you rself and all theequipm ent you ca rry with the stone for the duration.U sin g you r m ovem ent, you step into the stone at a pointyou can touch. N othin g of your pr esen ce rem ain s visibleor oth erwise detectable by n on m a gica l sen ses.W h ile m erged with the stone, you ca n t see whatoccu r s ou tside it, and any W isdom (P erception ) ch eck syou m ake to h ear sou n ds outside it are m ade withdisadvantage. You rem ain aware of the pa ssa ge oftim e and can cast spells on you rself while m erged inthe stone. You can u se you r m ovem en t to leave thestone wh ere you entered it, wh ich en ds the spell. Youoth erwise ca n t m ove.Min or physical da m age to the ston e d oesn t harmyou, but its partial destru ction or a ch a n ge in its shape(to the extent that you n o lon ger fit within it) expels youand dea ls 6d6 blu dgeon in g da m age to you. Th e ston escom plete destru ction (or transmutation into a differentsu bsta n ce) expels you and dea ls 50 blu dgeon in g da m ageto you. If expelled, you fall pron e in an u n occu pied spaceclosest to wh ere you first entered.
Polymorph;4;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a caterpillar cocoon ;1 hour;-;This spell transform s a creature that you can seeThis spell transform s a creature that you can seewithin range into a n ew form . An u nwillin g creatu rem ust m ake a W isdom saving th row to avoid theeffect. A sh apech an ger autom atically su cceeds on thissaving throw.Th e tran sform ation lasts for the duration, or untilthe target drops to 0 hit poin ts or dies. Th e n ew formcan be any bea st w h ose ch a llen ge rating is equ al to orless than the targets (or the targets level, if it doesn thave a ch a llen ge rating). Th e targets gam e statistics,in cluding m ental ability scor es, are repla ced by thestatistics of the ch osen beast. It retains its alignm entand personality.Th e target a ssu m es the hit poin ts of its n ew form .W h en it reverts to its n orm al form , the creatu reretu rn s to the num ber of hit poin ts it had before ittran sform ed. If it reverts as a result of droppin g to0 hit points, any excess da m age ca rries over to itsn orm al form . As lon g as the excess da m age d oesn tredu ce the crea tu res n orm al form to 0 hit points, it isn tk n ock ed u n con sciou s.Th e crea tu re is lim ited in the action s it ca n perform bythe nature of its n ew form , and it ca n t speak, cast spells,or take any oth er action that requ ires h an ds or speech .Th e targets gear m elds into the n ew form . Thecrea tu re ca n t activate, use, wield, or oth erwise benefitfrom any of its equipm ent.
Druidcraft;0;Transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;W h isperin g to the spirits of nature, you create on e of theW h isperin g to the spirits of nature, you create on e of thefollowin g effects within range:• You create a tiny, h a rm less sen sor y effect that predictswhat the weath er will be at you r location for the next24 h ours. Th e effect m ight m anifest as a golden orbfor clea r skies, a clou d for rain, falling sn owfla kes forsnow, and so on. Th is effect persists for 1 round.• You instantly m ake a flower blossom , a seed pod open,or a lea f bu d bloom .• You crea te an in stantaneous, h a rm less sen sor y effect,su ch as falling leaves, a pu ff of wind, the sou n d of asm all anim al, or the faint odor of skunk. Th e effectm ust fit in a 5-foot cube.• You instantly light or sn u ff out a can dle, a torch, or asm all cam pfire.
Blindness/Deafness;2;necromancy;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;You ca n blind or deafen a foe. C h oose on e creatu re thatYou ca n blind or deafen a foe. C h oose on e creatu re thatyou ca n see with in ran ge to m ake a Constitution savingthrow. If it fails, the target is either blin ded or dea fen ed(you r ch oice) for the duration. At the end of ea ch of itsturns, the target ca n m a ke a Constitution saving throw.On a su ccess, the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you ca n target oneadditional creatu re for ea ch slot level above 2nd.
MagicJar;6;necromancy;-;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;a gem , crystal, reliquary, or som eoth er ornam en tal con ta in er worth at least 500 gp;Until dispelled or triggered;-;Your body falls into a cataton ic state as your sou l leavesYour body falls into a cataton ic state as your sou l leavesit and enters the con ta in er you u sed for the spellsm aterial com pon en t. W h ile you r sou l inhabits thecontainer, you are aware of your su rrou n din gs as if youwere in the con ta in ers space. You ca n t m ove or u sereaction s. Th e on ly action you can take is to project yoursou l up to 100 feet out of the container, either returningto you r living body (and en din g the spell) or attem ptingto p ossess a h u m an oids body.You can attempt to p ossess any h um an oid within100 feet of you that you ca n see (creatu res wa rded by aprotection from evil and good or  m agic circle spell ca n tbe possessed). Th e target m ust m ake a Ch arism a savingthrow. On a failure, you r sou l m oves into the targetsbody, and the targets sou l becom es trapped in thecontainer. On a su ccess, the target resists you r effortsto p ossess it, and you ca n t attem pt to p ossess it againfor 24 hours.On ce you p ossess a crea tu res body, you con trol it.Your gam e statistics are repla ced by the statistics of thecreatu re, th ou gh you retain your alignm ent and yourIntelligence, W isdom , and Ch arism a scor es. You retainthe benefit of you r own cla ss features. If the target hasany cla ss levels, you ca n t u se any of its cla ss features.Mean wh ile, the p ossessed crea tu res sou l canperceive from the con ta in er u sing its own sen ses, but itca n t m ove or take action s at all.W h ile possessin g a body, you ca n u se you r action toreturn from the h ost body to the con tain er if it is within100 feet of you, retu rn in g the h ost crea tu res sou l toits body. If the h ost body dies wh ile you re in it, thecrea tu re dies, and you m ust m ake a Ch arism a savingth row against you r own spellca stin g DC. On a su ccess,you return to the con tain er if it is within 100 feet of you.Oth erwise, you die.If the con ta in er is destroyed or the spell ends, yoursou l im m ediately returns to your body. If you r body ism ore than 100 feet away from you or if your body isdead w h en you attem pt to return to it, you die. If anothercrea tu res sou l is in the con ta in er wh en it is destroyed,the crea tu res sou l retu rn s to its body if the body is aliveand within 100 feet. Oth erwise, that creatu re dies.W h en the spell ends, the con tain er is destroyed.
AnimalFriendship;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a m orsel of food;24 hours;-;Th is spell lets you con vin ce a bea st that you m ean it noTh is spell lets you con vin ce a bea st that you m ean it noharm . C h oose a bea st that you ca n see within range.It m ust see and h ear you. If the bea sts In telligen ce is4 or higher, the spell fails. Oth erwise, the bea st m ustsu cceed on a W isdom saving th row or be ch a rm edby you for the spells duration. If you or on e of yourcom pa n ion s h arm s the target, the spells ends.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect on eadditional bea st for ea ch slot level above 1st.
DancingLights;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a bit of ph osph oru s or w ych w ood,or a glowworm ;1 minutes;-;You create up to fou r torch -sized lights within range,You create up to fou r torch -sized lights within range,m akin g th em appear as torch es, lanterns, or glowin gorbs that h over in the air for the duration. You cana lso com bin e the fou r lights into on e glowin g vaguelyh um an oid form of M ediu m size. W h ich ever form youch oose, ea ch light sh eds dim light in a 10-foot radius.As a bon u s action on you r turn, you can m ove thelights up to 60 feet to a n ew spot within range. A lightm ust be within 20 feet of another light created by thisspell, and a light win ks out if it exceeds the spells range.
ArmsofHadar;1;conjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;You invoke the power of Hadar, the Dark H unger.You invoke the power of Hadar, the Dark H unger.Ten drils of dark en ergy erupt from you and batter allcrea tu res within 10 feet of you. E a ch creatu re in thatarea m ust m a ke a Stren gth saving throw. On a failedsave, a target takes 2d6 n ecrotic dam age and ca n t takerea ction s until its next turn. On a su ccessfu l save, thecreature takes h a lf dam age, but suffers n o oth er effect.A t H igher L evels. W h en you ca st this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
LeomundsSecretChest;4;conjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;an exquisite chest, 3 feet by 2 feetby 2 feet, con stru cted from rare m aterials worth atleast 5,000 gp, and a Tiny replica m a de from the sa m em aterials worth at least 50 gp;instant;-;You h ide a chest, and all its contents, on the E therealYou h ide a chest, and all its contents, on the E therealPlane. You m ust tou ch the ch est and the m iniaturereplica that serves as a m aterial com pon en t for the spell.Th e ch est ca n con tain up to 12 cu bic feet of nonlivingm aterial (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).W h ile the ch est rem ain s on the E thereal P lane, youca n u se an action and tou ch the replica to reca ll thechest. It appears in an u n occu pied spa ce on the grou n dwithin 5 feet of you. You ca n sen d the ch est ba ck to theEthereal P la n e by u sin g an a ction and tou ch in g both thech est and the replica.After 60 days, th ere is a cum ulative 5 percen t ch a n ceper day that the spells effect en ds. Th is effect en ds ifyou cast this spell again, if the sm aller replica ch est isdestroyed, or if you ch oose to en d the spell as an action.If the spell en ds and the larger ch est is on the E therealP lane, it is irretrievably lost.
BrandingSmite;2;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a crea tu re with a wea pon attackTh e next tim e you hit a crea tu re with a wea pon attackbefore this spell ends, the w ea pon glea m s with astralradia n ce as you strike. Th e attack dea ls an extra 2d6radiant da m age to the target, wh ich becom es visible ifits invisible, and the target sh eds dim light in a 5-footradius and ca n t becom e invisible until the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin ga spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the extra dam agein crea ses by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
CharmPerson;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You attem pt to ch a rm a h u m an oid you ca n see withinYou attem pt to ch a rm a h u m an oid you ca n see withinrange. It m ust m ake a W isdom saving throw, and doesso with advantage if you or you r com pa n ion s are fightingit. If it fails the saving throw, it is ch a rm ed by you untilthe spell en ds or until you or your com pa n ion s doanything h arm fu l to it. Th e ch a rm ed crea tu re regardsyou as a friendly acqu aintan ce. W h en the spell ends, thecreatu re k n ows it w a s ch a rm ed by you.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional creatu re for ea ch slot level above 1st. Th ecrea tu res m ust be within 30 feet of ea ch oth er wh enyou target them .
BeastSense;2;divination;True;1 action;-;touch;S;-;1 round;-;You tou ch a willin g beast. F or the duration of the spell,You tou ch a willin g beast. F or the duration of the spell,you ca n u se you r action to see th rough the bea sts eyesand h ear what it hears, and con tin u e to do so untilyou u se your action to return to your n orm al sen ses.W h ile perceivin g th rough the bea sts sen ses, you gainthe benefits of any specia l sen ses possessed by thatcreatu re, th ou gh you are blin ded and dea fen ed to yourown su rrou n din gs.
AnimateObjects;5;transmutation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Objects com e to life at you r com m a n d. Ch oose up toObjects com e to life at you r com m a n d. Ch oose up toten n on m a gica l objects with in ran ge that are not bein gw orn or carried. Mediu m targets cou n t as two objects,Large targets cou n t as fou r objects, H uge targetscou n t as eight objects. You ca n t anim ate any objectlarger than H uge. E a ch target an im ates and becom es acrea tu re u nder you r con trol until the spell en ds or untilredu ced to 0 hit points.As a bon u s action, you ca n m entally com m a n d anycrea tu re you m a de with this spell if the creatu re iswithin 500 feet of you (if you con trol m ultiple creatu res,you ca n com m a n d any or all of th em at the sa m e time,issu in g the sa m e com m a n d to ea ch one). You decidewhat action the crea tu re w ill take and w h ere it willm ove du ring its next turn, or you can issu e a generalcom m a n d, su ch as to guard a particu lar ch a m ber orcorridor. If you issu e n o com m a n ds, the creatu re onlydefen ds itself against h ostile crea tu res. On ce givenan order, the creatu re con tin u es to follow it until itstask is com plete.An i m a t e d O b j e c t S t a t i s t i c sSize HP AC Attack Str DexTiny 20 18 +8 to hit, 1d4 + 4 damage 4 18Small 25 16 +6 to hit, 1d8 + 2 damage 6 14Medium 40 13 +5 to hit, 2d6 + 1 damage 10 12Large 50 10 +6 to hit, 2d10 + 2 damage 14 10Huge 80 10 +8 to hit, 2d12 + 4 damage 18 6An an im ated object is a con stru ct with AC, hit points,attacks, Stren gth , and Dexterity determ in ed by its size.Its Constitution is 10 and its In telligen ce and W isdomare 3, and its Ch arism a is 1. Its sp eed is 30 feet if theobject la cks legs or oth er a ppen da ges it ca n u se forlocom otion , it instead h as a flying speed of 30 feet andca n hover. If the object is secu rely attached to a su rfaceor a larger object, su ch as a chain bolted to a wall, itsspeed is 0. It has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet andis blind beyon d that distance. W h en the an im ated objectdrops to 0 hit points, it reverts to its origin a l objectform , and any rem ain in g da m age ca rries over to itsorigin al object form .If you com m a n d an object to attack, it ca n m ake asingle m elee attack against a crea tu re within 5 feetof it. It m a kes a slam attack with an attack bon u s andblu dgeon in g da m age determ in ed by its size. Th e DMm ight rule that a specific object inflicts slash in g orpiercin g da m age ba sed on its form .A t H igher L evels. If you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, you ca n anim ate twoadditional objects for each slot level above 5th.
Friends;0;Enchantment;-;1 action;-;self;S,M;a sm all am oun t of m akeup appliedto the face as this spell is cast;1 minutes;-;F or the duration, you have advantage on all Ch arism aF or the duration, you have advantage on all Ch arism ach eck s directed at on e crea tu re of you r ch oice that isn th ostile toward you. W h en the spell ends, the creatu rerea lizes that you u sed m a gic to in flu ence its m oodan d becom es h ostile toward you. A crea tu re pron eto violen ce m ight attack you. An oth er creatu re m ightseek retribution in oth er ways (at the DM s discretion),depen din g on the nature of you r interaction with it.
HellishRebuke;1;evocation;-;1 reaction;ct comment;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You poin t you r finger, and the crea tu re that da m agedYou poin t you r finger, and the crea tu re that da m agedyou is m om entarily su rrou n ded by hellish flam es. Th ecreatu re m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. It takes2d10 fire da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m uchda m age on a su ccessfu l one.A t H igher L evels. W h en you ca st this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1dlO for ea ch slot level above 1st.
CrownofMadness;2;enchantment;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;One h um an oid of your ch oice that you ca n see withinOne h um an oid of your ch oice that you ca n see withinrange m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row orbecom e ch a rm ed by you for the duration. Wh ilethe target is ch a rm ed in this way, a twisted crownof ja gged iron appears on its head, and a m a dn essglows in its eyes.Th e ch a rm ed target m ust u se its a ction before m ovin gon each of its turns to m ake a m elee attack against acreatu re oth er than itself that you m entally ch oose.Material DurationVegetable matter 1 dayStone or crystal 12 hoursPrecious metals 1 hourGems 10 minutesAdamantine or mithral 1 minuteTh e target ca n act n orm ally on its turn if you ch oose nocreatu re or if n on e are within its reach.On you r su bsequ en t turns, you m ust u se you r action tom aintain con trol over the target, or the spell ends. Also,the target ca n m ake a W isdom saving th row at the endof ea ch of its turns. On a su ccess, the spell ends.
WindWall;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a tiny fan and a feather ofexotic origin;1 minutes;-;A wall of stron g win d r ises from the grou n d at a pointA wall of stron g win d r ises from the grou n d at a pointyou ch oose with in range. You ca n m ake the wall upto 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick. You cansh ape the wall in any way you ch oose so lon g as itm a kes on e con tin u ou s path alon g the ground. Th e walllasts for the duration.W h en the wall appears, each creatu re within its aream ust m ake a Stren gth saving throw. A crea tu re takes3d8 blu dgeon in g da m age on a failed save, or h a lf asm uch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th e stron g win d keeps fog, sm oke, and oth er ga ses atbay. Sm a ll or sm aller flying crea tu res or objects ca n tpa ss th rough the wall. Loose, lightweight m aterialsbrou gh t into the wall fly upward. Arrows, bolts, andoth er ordin ary projectiles laun ch ed at targets beh in dthe wall are deflected u pward and autom atically m iss.(Bou lders hurled by giants or siege en gin es, an d sim ilarprojectiles, are u naffected.) Creatures in ga seou s formca n t pa ss th rough it.
FeignDeath;3;necromancy;True;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a pinch of graveyard dirt;1 hour;-;You tou ch a willin g creatu re and put it into a catalepticYou tou ch a willin g creatu re and put it into a catalepticstate that is indistin gu ishable from death.F or the spells duration, or until you u se an actionto touch the target and dism iss the spell, the targetappears dead to all ou tward in spection and to spellsu sed to determ ine the targets status. Th e target isblin ded and in capacitated, and its speed drops to 0.Th e target h as resista n ce to all da m age except psych icda m age. If the target is disea sed or poison ed wh en youcast the spell, or becom es disea sed or poison ed whileu n der the spells effect, the disea se and poison have noeffect until the spell ends.
FaerieFire;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;E a ch object in a 20-foot cu be within ran ge is ou tlin ed inE a ch object in a 20-foot cu be within ran ge is ou tlin ed inblue, green, or violet light (you r ch oice). Any creatu re inthe area w h en the spell is cast is also outlined in light ifit fails a Dexterity saving throw. F or the duration, objectsand affected creatu res shed dim light in a 10-foot radius.An y attack roll against an affected creatu re or objecthas advantage if the attacker can see it, and the affectedcreatu re or object ca n t benefit from bein g invisible.
ChillTouch;0;N;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;You create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the spa ce of aYou create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the spa ce of acreatu re with in range. Make a ran ged spell attackagainst the creatu re to assail it with the chill of thegrave. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 n ecrotic dam age,and it ca n t regain hit poin ts until the start of you r nextturn. Until then, the hand clin gs to the target.If you hit an undead target, it a lso h as disadvantage onattack rolls against you until the en d of you r n ext turn.Th is spells da m age in crea ses by 1d8 wh en you reach5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
Seeming;5;illusion;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;8 hours;-;Th is spell a llows you to ch a n ge the appea ra n ce of anyTh is spell a llows you to ch a n ge the appea ra n ce of anyn um ber of crea tu res that you ca n see within range. Yougive ea ch target you ch oose a new, illusory appearan ce.An u nwillin g target ca n m ake a Ch arism a saving throw,and if it su cceeds, it is unaffected by this spell.Th e spell disgu ises ph ysical a ppearan ce as well ascloth in g, arm or, w ea pon s, and equipm ent. You can m akeea ch crea tu re seem 1 foot sh orter or taller and appearthin, fat, or in between . You ca n t ch a n ge a targets bodytype, so you m ust ch oose a form that h as the sa m eba sic arran gem ent of lim bs. Oth erwise, the extent ofthe illusion is up to you. Th e spell lasts for the duration,u n less you u se your action to dism iss it soon er.Th e ch a n ges wrou gh t by this spell fail to h old up tophysical in spection . F or exam ple, if you u se th is spellto add a hat to a crea tu res outfit, objects pa ss throughthe hat, and anyone wh o tou ch es it wou ld feel nothingor w ou ld feel the crea tu res h ead and hair. If you usethis spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand ofsom eon e w h o rea ch es out to tou ch you wou ld bu m p intoyou wh ile it wa s seem in gly still in midair.A crea tu re ca n u se its action to in spect a target andm ake an Intelligen ce (Investigation) ch eck against yourspell save DC. If it su cceeds, it becom es aware that thetarget is disgu ised.
SpiderClimb;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a drop of bitum en and a spider;1 hour;-;Until the spell ends, on e willin g creatu re you touchUntil the spell ends, on e willin g creatu re you touchgains the ability to m ove up, down , and a cr oss verticalsu rfa ces and upside down alon g ceilin gs, while leavingits h an ds free. Th e target a lso gains a clim bin g speedequ al to its walkin g speed.
IncendiaryCloud;8;conjuration;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A swirlin g clou d of sm ok e sh ot th rough with white-hotA swirlin g clou d of sm ok e sh ot th rough with white-hotem bers appears in a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere cen tered ona point within range. Th e clou d sprea ds arou nd corn ersand is heavily obscu red. It lasts for the duration or untila win d of m oderate or greater speed (at least 10 m ilesper hour) disperses it.W h en the clou d appears, each creatu re in it m ustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. A crea tu re ta kes 10d8fire da m age on a failed save, or h alf as m uch da m age ona su ccessfu l one. A crea tu re m ust a lso m ake th is savingth row wh en it enters the spells area for the first tim e ona turn or en ds its turn there.Th e clou d m oves 10 feet directly away from youin a direction that you ch oose at the start of eachof you r turns.
Stoneskin;4;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;diam on d dust worth 100 gp,which the spell con su m es;1 hour;-;Th is spell turns the flesh of a willin g crea tu re you touchTh is spell turns the flesh of a willin g crea tu re you touchas h ard as stone. Until the spell ends, the target hasresista n ce to n on m a gica l blu dgeon in g, piercing, andslash in g dam age.
FireShield;4;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a bit of ph osph oru s or a firefly;10 minutes;-;Thin and wispy fla m es wrea th e you r body for theThin and wispy fla m es wrea th e you r body for theduration, sh eddin g bright light in a 10-foot radius anddim light for an additional 10 feet. You ca n en d the spellearly by u sin g an action to dism iss it.Th e fla m es provide you with a warm shield or a chillshield, as you ch oose. Th e w a rm shield grants youresista n ce to cold dam age, and the chill sh ield grantsyou resista n ce to fire dam age.In addition, wh en ever a crea tu re within 5 feet of youhits you with a m elee attack, the shield erupts withflam e. Th e attacker takes 2d8 fire da m age from a wa rmshield, or 2d8 cold da m age from a cold shield.
DetectPoisonandDisease;1;divination;True;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a yew leaf;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];F or the duration, you can sen se the pr esen ce andF or the duration, you can sen se the pr esen ce andloca tion of poison s, poison ou s creatu res, and disea seswith in 30 feet of you. You also identify the kind ofpoison , poison ou s creature, or disea se in ea ch case.Th e spell ca n penetrate m ost barriers, but it is blockedby 1 foot of stone, 1 in ch of com m on m etal, a thin sheetof lead, or 3 feet of w ood or dirt.
Blur;2;illusion;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Your body becom es blurred, sh ifting and waverin g toYour body becom es blurred, sh ifting and waverin g toall w h o ca n see you. F or the duration, any creatu re hasdisadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attackeris im m u n e to this effect if it d oesn t rely on sight,as with blindsight, or can see th rou gh illusions, aswith truesight.
Blight;4;necromancy;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;N ecrom a n tic en ergy w a sh es over a creatu re of yourN ecrom a n tic en ergy w a sh es over a creatu re of yourch oice that you ca n see with in range, drain in g m oistu reand vitality from it. Th e target m ust m ake a Constitutionsaving throw. Th e target takes 8d8 n ecrotic da m age ona failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu lon e. Th is spell has n o effect on u ndead or con stru cts.If you target a plant crea tu re or a m a gica l plant, itm a kes the saving th row with disadvantage, and the spelldea ls m a xim u m da m age to it.If you target a n on m a gica l plant that isnt a creature,su ch as a tree or shrub, it doesn t m ake a saving throwit sim ply with ers and dies.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 5th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 4th.
StinkingCloud;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;a rotten egg or several sku n kca bba ge leaves;1 minutes;-;You crea te a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere of yellow, nauseatingYou crea te a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere of yellow, nauseatinggas cen tered on a poin t within range. Th e clou d sprea dsarou nd corn ers, and its area is heavily obscu red. Theclou d lin gers in the air for the duration.E ach creatu re that is com pletely within the clou d atthe start of its turn m ust m ake a Constitution savingth row against poison . On a failed save, the creatu respen ds its action that turn retchin g and reeling.Creatures that don t n eed to breathe or are im m u n e topoison autom atically su cceed on this saving throw.A m oderate win d (at least 10 m iles per hour) dispersesthe clou d after 4 roun ds. A stron g win d (at least 20m iles per hour) disperses it after 1 round.
ProgrammedIllusion;6;illusion;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a bit of fleece and ja de dust worthat least 25 gp;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You crea te an illusion of an object, a creature, orYou crea te an illusion of an object, a creature, orsom e oth er visible ph en om en on within range thatactivates wh en a specific condition occu rs. Th e illusionis im perceptible until then. It m ust be n o larger than a30-foot cube, and you decide when you cast the spellh ow the illusion behaves and what sou n ds it m akes. Th isscripted perform a n ce can last up to 5 m inutes.W h en the con dition you sp ecify occu r s, the illusionsprin gs into existen ce and perform s in the m a n n er youdescribed. On ce the illusion fin ish es perform in g, itdisappea rs and rem ain s dorm ant for 10 m inutes. Afterthis time, the illusion ca n be activated again.Th e triggerin g con dition ca n be as general or asdetailed as you like, th ou gh it m ust be ba sed on visu al oraudible con dition s that occu r within 30 feet of the area.F or exam ple, you cou ld create an illusion of you rselfto appear and warn off oth ers w h o attem pt to open atrapped door, or you cou ld set the illusion to trigger on lywh en a crea tu re says the corr ect w ord or phrase.P h ysica l interaction with the im age reveals it to be anillusion, beca u se things ca n pa ss th rough it. A creaturethat u ses its action to exa m in e the im age ca n determ inethat it is an illusion with a su ccessfu l Intelligence(Investigation) ch eck against you r spell save DC. If acreatu re discern s the illusion for what it is, the creatureca n see th rough the im age, and any n oise it m a kessou n ds h ollow to the creature.
Shapechange;9;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a ja de circlet worth at least 1,500gp, wh ich you m ust pla ce on your h ead before youcast the spell;1 hour;-;You assu m e the form of a different creatu re for theYou assu m e the form of a different creatu re for theduration. Th e n ew form can be of any creatu re witha ch a llen ge rating equ al to your level or lower. Thecreatu re ca n t be a con stru ct or an undead, and youm ust have seen the sort of creatu re at least on ce. Youtran sform into an average exam ple of that creatu re, on ewithout any cla ss levels or the Spellca stin g trait.Your gam e statistics are repla ced by the statisticsof the ch osen creatu re, th ou gh you retain youralignm ent and Intelligence, W isdom , and Ch arism ascor es. You also retain all of your skill and savingth row proficien cies, in addition to gain in g th ose of thecreature. If the crea tu re has the sa m e proficien cy as youand the bon u s listed in its statistics is h igh er than yours,u se the crea tu res bon u s in pla ce of you rs. You ca n t useany legen dary actions or lair action s of the n ew form .You assu m e the hit poin ts and Hit Dice of the n ewform . Wh en you revert to your n orm al form , youreturn to the n u m ber of hit poin ts you had before youtran sform ed. If you revert as a result of droppin g to0 hit points, any excess da m age ca rries over to yourn orm al form . As lon g as the excess da m age d oesn tredu ce you r n orm al form to 0 hit points, you aren tk n ock ed u n con sciou s.You retain the benefit of any features from your class,race, or oth er sou r ce and ca n u se them , provided thatyour n ew form is physically capable of doin g so. Youca n t u se any specia l sen ses you have (for exam ple,darkvision) u n less your n ew form also has that sen se.You ca n on ly spea k if the creatu re ca n norm ally speak.W h en you transform , you ch oose wh eth er yourequ ipm ent falls to the grou nd, m erges into the n ewform , or is w orn by it. W orn equ ipm ent fu n ction s asn orm al. Th e DM determ in es wh eth er it is practical forthe n ew form to w ea r a piece of equipm ent, ba sed onthe crea tu res sh ape and size. Your equ ipm ent doesn tch a n ge sh ape or size to m atch the n ew form , and anyequ ipm ent that the n ew form ca n t w ea r m ust either fallto the grou n d or m erge into you r n ew form . Equipm entthat m erges has n o effect in that state.Du rin g this spells duration, you ca n u se your action toassu m e a different form followin g the sa m e restriction sand ru les for the origin a l form , with on e exception : ifyour n ew form has m ore hit poin ts than your currentone, you r hit poin ts rem ain at their current value.
ComprehendLanguages;1;divination;True;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a pin ch of soot and salt;1 hour;-;F or the duration, you understan d the literal m ea n in g ofF or the duration, you understan d the literal m ea n in g ofany spoken language that you hear. You a lso understandany written language that you see, but you m ust betou ch in g the su rfa ce on wh ich the w ords are written. Ittakes about 1 m inute to read on e page of text.Th is spell doesn t decode secret m essa ges in a textor a glyph, su ch as an arcan e sigil, that isnt part of awritten language.
FeatherFall;1;transmutation;-;1 reaction;ct comment;60 feet;V,M;a sm all feather or piece of down;1 minutes;-;Ch oose up to five falling crea tu res within range. ACh oose up to five falling crea tu res within range. Afalling creatu res rate of descen t slows to 60 feet perroun d until the spell ends. If the creatu re lands beforethe spell ends, it takes n o falling da m age and ca n landon its feet, and the spell en ds for that creature.
LightningBolt;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a bit of fur and a r od of am ber,crystal, or glass;instant;-;A stroke of lightning form in g a line 100 feet lon g and 5A stroke of lightning form in g a line 100 feet lon g and 5feet w ide blasts out from you in a direction you ch oose.E a ch creatu re in the line m ust m ake a Dexterity savingthrow. A crea tu re takes 8d6 lightning da m age on afailed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th e lightning ignites flam m able objects in the areathat aren t bein g w orn or carried.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by1d6 for ea ch slot level above 3rd.
TrueSeeing;6;divination;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;an ointm ent for the eyes thatcosts 25 gp is m ade from m u sh room powder, saffron,and fat and is con su m ed by the spell;1 hour;-;Th is spell gives the willin g crea tu re you tou ch the abilityTh is spell gives the willin g crea tu re you tou ch the abilityto see things as they actually are. F or the duration, thecrea tu re has truesight, n otices secret door s hidden bym agic, and ca n see into the E thereal Plane, all out to aran ge of 120 feet.
Goodberry;1;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a sprig of m istletoe;instant;-;Up to ten berries appear in your hand and are in fu sedUp to ten berries appear in your hand and are in fu sedwith m a gic for the duration. A crea tu re ca n u se itsaction to eat on e berry. E ating a berry restores 1 hitpoint, and the berry provides en ou gh n ourishm ent tosustain a crea tu re for on e day.Th e berries lose their poten cy if they have not beencon su m ed within 24 h ou rs of the castin g of this spell.
GlyphofWarding;3;abjuration;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;in cen se and pow der ed dia m on dworth at least 200 gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;W h en you cast this spell, you in scribe a glyph thatW h en you cast this spell, you in scribe a glyph thath arm s oth er creatu res, either u pon a su rfa ce (such asa table or a section of floor or wall) or within an objectthat can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasurechest) to con cea l the glyph. If you ch oose a su rface, theglyph ca n cover an area of the su rfa ce n o larger than10 feet in diameter. If you ch oose an object, that objectm ust rem ain in its place if the object is m oved m orethan 10 feet from wh ere you cast this spell, the glyph isbroken , and the spell en ds without bein g triggered.Th e glyph is nearly invisible and requ ires a su ccessfu lIn telligen ce (Investigation) ch eck against you r spell saveDC to be found.You decide what triggers the glyph wh en you castthe spell. For glyphs in scribed on a su rface, the m osttypical triggers include tou ch in g or stan din g on theglyph, rem ovin g an oth er object coverin g the glyph,approa ch in g within a certain dista n ce of the glyph, orm anipulating the object on wh ich the glyph is in scribed.F or glyphs in scribed within an object, the m ost com m ontriggers in clu de open in g that object, a pproa ch in g withina certain dista n ce of the object, or seein g or readin g theglyph. On ce a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.You ca n further refine the trigger so the spell activateson ly u nder certain circu m sta n ces or a ccordin g toph ysical ch a ra cteristics (such as height or weight),crea tu re kind (for exam ple, the ward cou ld be set toaffect aberration s or drow), or alignm ent. You ca n alsoset con dition s for crea tu res that don t trigger the glyph,su ch as th ose w h o say a certain pa ssword.Wh en you in scribe the glyph, ch oose  explosive runesor a  spell glyph.E xplosive R unes. Wh en triggered, the glyph eruptswith m a gica l en ergy in a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere centeredon the glyph. Th e sph ere sprea ds arou nd corn ers. E achcreatu re in the area m ust m ake a Dexterity savingthrow. A creatu re takes 5d8 acid, cold, fire, lightning, orthunder da m age on a failed saving th row (you r ch oicewh en you create the glyph), or h a lf as m u ch da m age on asu ccessfu l one.S pell Glyph. You ca n store a prepared spell of3rd level or lower in the glyph by ca stin g it as partof creatin g the glyph. Th e spell m ust target a singlecreatu re or an area. Th e spell bein g stored has noim m ediate effect w h en cast in this way. Wh en the glyphis triggered, the stored spell is cast. If the spell has atarget, it targets the creatu re that triggered the glyph.If the spell affects an area, the area is cen tered onthat creatu re. If the spell su m m on s h ostile creatu resor crea tes h arm fu l objects or traps, they appear asclose as possible to the intruder and attack it. If thespell requ ires con cen tra tion , it lasts until the end of itsfull duration.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell usinga spell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age of anexplosive runes glyph in crea ses by 1d8 for each slotlevel above 3rd. If you create a  spell glyph, you ca n storeany spell of up to the sa m e level as the slot you u se forthe  glyph of warding.
InflictWounds;1;necromancy;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;Make a m elee spell attack against a creatu re you canMake a m elee spell attack against a creatu re you canreach. On a hit, the target takes 3d10 n ecrotic dam age.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d10 for each slot level above 1st.
WaterBreathing;3;transmutation;True;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a sh ort reed or piece of straw;24 hours;-;Th is spell grants up to ten willin g crea tu res you ca n seeTh is spell grants up to ten willin g crea tu res you ca n seewithin ran ge the ability to breathe underwater until thespell ends. Affected crea tu res also retain their norm alm ode of respiration.
Fireball;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;a tiny ball of batgu a n o and sulfur;instant;-;A bright strea k flash es from your poin tin g finger to aA bright strea k flash es from your poin tin g finger to apoint you ch oose within ran ge and then blossom s witha low roa r into an explosion of flam e. E a ch creatu rein a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere cen tered on that poin t mustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 fireda m a ge on a failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m a ge on asu ccessfu l on e.Th e fire sprea ds arou nd corn ers. It ignites flam m ableobjects in the area that arent bein g w orn or carried.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
MagicCircle;3;abjuration;-;1 minute;-;10 feet;V,S,M;holy water or pow deredsilver and iron worth at least 100 gp, wh ich thespell con su m es;1 round;-;You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder ofYou create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder ofm a gica l en ergy cen tered on a poin t on the grou ndthat you can see within range. Glowin g ru n es appearwh erever the cylinder in tersects with the floor oroth er su rface.Ch oose on e or m ore of the followin g types ofcreatu res: celestials, elem entals, fey, fiends, or undead.Th e circle affects a creatu re of the ch osen type in thefollowin g ways:• Th e creatu re ca n t willin gly enter the cylinder byn on m a gica l m ea n s. If the crea tu re tries to u se tele­portation or interplanar travel to do so, it m ust firstsu cceed on a Ch arism a saving throw.• Th e creatu re has disadvantage on attack rolls againsttargets within the cylinder.• Targets within the cylinder ca n t be ch a rm ed, fright­ened, or possessed by the creature.W h en you cast this spell, you ca n elect to ca u se itsm a gic to operate in the reverse direction , preventing acrea tu re of the specified type from leaving the cylinderand protectin g targets ou tside it.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration in crea ses by1 h ou r for ea ch slot level above 3rd.
Shield;1;abjuration;-;1 reaction;ct comment;self;V,S;-;1 round;-;An invisible ba rrier of m a gica l force appears andAn invisible ba rrier of m a gica l force appears andprotects you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a+5 bon u s to AC, in cluding against the triggerin g attack,and you take n o da m age from  m agic m issile.
Nondetection;3;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a pin ch of dia m on d dustworth 25 gp sprin kled over the target, wh ich thespell con su m es;8 hours;-;F or the duration, you h ide a target that you touchF or the duration, you h ide a target that you touchfrom divination m agic. Th e target ca n be a willin gcrea tu re or a pla ce or an object n o larger than 10feet in any dim en sion . Th e target ca n t be targeted byany divination m a gic or perceived th rough m a gica lscryin g sen sors.
SpeakwithAnimals;1;divination;True;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;You gain the ability to com preh en d and verballyYou gain the ability to com preh en d and verballycom m u n ica te with bea sts for the duration. Th ekn owledge and a wa ren ess of m any bea sts is lim itedby their in telligence, but at m inim um , bea sts cangive you in form ation about nearby loca tion s andm on sters, in cluding whatever they can perceive or haveperceived within the past day. You m ight be able topersu ade a bea st to perform a sm all favor for you, at theD M s discretion.
ConjureBarrage;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;one piece of am m u nition or ath rown w eapon ;instant;-;You th row a n on m a gica l w ea pon or fire a piece ofYou th row a n on m a gica l w ea pon or fire a piece ofn on m a gica l am m u nition into the air to create a con eof identical wea pon s that sh oot forwa rd and thendisappear. E ach creatu re in a 60-foot con e m ust su cceedon a Dexterity saving throw. A crea tu re takes 3d8da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on asu ccessfu l one. Th e da m age type is the sa m e as that ofthe w ea pon or am m u nition u sed as a com pon en t.
ReverseGravity;7;transmutation;-;1 action;-;100 feet;V,S,M;a lodeston e and iron filings;1 minutes;-;Th is spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius, 100-Th is spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius, 100-foot high cylinder centered on a point within range. Allcreatures and objects that arent som eh ow anchored tothe ground in the area fall upward and reach the top ofthe area when you cast this spell. A creature can m ake aDexterity saving throw to grab onto a fixed object it canreach, thus avoiding the fall.If som e solid object (such as a ceilin g) is en cou n teredin this fall, fallin g objects and crea tu res strike it ju st asthey wou ld du ring a n orm al down wa rd fall. If an objector crea tu re rea ch es the top of the area with ou t strikinganything, it rem ain s there, oscillatin g slightly, forthe duration.At the en d of the duration, affected objects andcrea tu res fall ba ck down.
Divination;4;divination;True;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;in cen se and a sacrificial offeringappropriate to you r religion, together worth at least 25gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;Your m a gic and an offerin g put you in con tact withYour m a gic and an offerin g put you in con tact witha god or a god s servants. You ask a single qu estioncon cern in g a specific goal, event, or activity to occu rwithin 7 days. Th e DM offers a truthful reply. Th e replym ight be a sh ort ph rase, a cryptic rhym e, or an om en .Th e spell d oesn t take into a ccou n t any possiblecircu m sta n ces that m ight ch a n ge the ou tcom e, su chas the castin g of additional spells or the loss or gainof a com pa n ion .If you cast the spell two or m ore tim es before finishingyour next lon g rest, there is a cum ulative 25 percen tch a n ce for each castin g after the first that you get aran dom reading. Th e DM m a kes this roll in secret.
RarysTelepathicBond;5;divination;True;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;pieces of eggsh ell from twodifferent kin ds of creatu res;1 hour;-;You forge a telepathic link a m on g up to eight willin gYou forge a telepathic link a m on g up to eight willin gcrea tu res of your ch oice with in range, psych ica llylin kin g ea ch creatu re to all the oth ers for the duration.Creatures with Intelligen ce scor es of 2 or less aren taffected by this spell.Until the spell ends, the targets ca n com m u n ica tetelepathically th rough the bon d wh eth er or not they havea com m on language. Th e com m u n ica tion is possibleover any distance, th ou gh it ca n t extend to oth er planesof existence.
MassCureWounds;5;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A wave of h ealin g en ergy w a sh es out from a point ofA wave of h ealin g en ergy w a sh es out from a point ofyou r ch oice within range. C h oose up to six crea tu resin a 30-foot-radiu s sph ere cen tered on that point. E achtarget rega in s hit poin ts equ al to 3d8 + you r spellcastin gability m odifier. Th is spell h as n o effect on undeador con stru cts.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the h ealin g in crea ses by1d8 for each slot level above 5th.
OttosIrresistibleDance;6;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;C h oose on e creatu re that you ca n see within range. Th eC h oose on e creatu re that you ca n see within range. Th etarget begin s a com ic da n ce in place: shuffling, tappingits feet, and ca perin g for the duration. Creatures thatca n t be ch a rm ed are im m u n e to this spell.A da n cin g creatu re m ust u se all its m ovem en t toda n ce without leaving its spa ce and has disadvantageon Dexterity saving th rows and attack rolls. Wh ilethe target is affected by this spell, oth er creatu reshave advantage on attack rolls against it. As anaction, a da n cin g crea tu re m a kes a W isdom savingth row to regain con trol of itself. On a su ccessfu l save,the spell ends.
CreateorDestroyWater;1;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a drop of water if crea tin g wateror a few gra in s of sa n d if destroyin g it;instant;-;You either create or destroy water.You either create or destroy water.Create Water. You create up to 10 gallon s of cleanwater within ran ge in an open container. Alternatively,the water falls as rain in a 30-foot cu be within range,extin gu ish in g exposed fla m es in the area.D estroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallon s of waterin an open con tain er within range. Alternatively, youdestroy fog in a 30-foot cu be within range.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, you create or destroy10 additional gallon s of water, or the size of the cu bein crea ses by 5 feet, for ea ch slot level above 1st.
DominateMonster;8;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;You attempt to begu ile a creatu re that you ca n seeYou attempt to begu ile a creatu re that you ca n seewith in range. It m ust su cceed on a W isdom savingth row or be ch a rm ed by you for the duration. If you orcrea tu res that are friendly to you are fighting it, it hasadvantage on the saving throw.W h ile the creatu re is ch a rm ed, you have a telepathiclin k with it as lon g as the two of you are on the sa m eplane of existen ce. You ca n u se this telepathic lin k toissu e com m a n ds to the creatu re wh ile you are con sciou s(no action requ ired), wh ich it does its best to obey. Youca n specify a sim ple and general cou r se of action, su chas “Attack that crea tu re,” “Run over there,” or “Fetchthat object.” If the crea tu re com pletes the order andd oesn t receive further direction from you, it defendsand pr eserves itself to the best of its ability.You ca n u se you r action to take total and precisecon trol of the target. Until the en d of your next turn, thecrea tu re takes on ly the a ction s you ch oose, and doesn tdo anything that you don t allow it to do. Du rin g thistim e, you ca n also ca u se the creatu re to u se a reaction,but this requ ires you to u se your own reaction as well.E a ch tim e the target takes dam age, it m a kes a n ewW isdom saving th row against the spell. If the savingth row su cceeds, the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell witha 9th level spell slot, the duration is con cen tra tion ,up to 8 hours.
MassHealingWord;3;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;As you call out w ords of restoration, up to six crea tu resAs you call out w ords of restoration, up to six crea tu resof you r ch oice that you can see within ran ge regain hitpoin ts equ al to 1d4 + you r spellcastin g ability m odifier.Th is spell h as n o effect on undead or con stru cts.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast th is spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the h ealin g in cr ea ses by1d4 for each slot level above 3rd.
Awaken;5;transmutation;-;8 hours;-;touch;V,S,M;an agate worth at least 1,000 gp,wh ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;After spen din g the ca stin g tim e tracing m a gica lAfter spen din g the ca stin g tim e tracing m a gica lpathways within a preciou s gem ston e, you tou ch a H ugeor sm aller bea st or plant. Th e target m ust have eitherno In telligence scor e or an In telligen ce of 3 or less. Thetarget gains an Intelligence of 10. Th e target a lso gainsthe ability to spea k on e language you know. If the targetis a plant, it gain s the ability to m ove its lim bs, roots,vines, creepers, and so forth, and it gains sen ses sim ilarto a hum an s. Your DM ch ooses statistics appropriatefor the awaken ed plant, su ch as the statistics for theawaken ed shrub or the awaken ed tree.Th e awaken ed bea st or plant is ch a rm ed by you for30 days or until you or you r com pa n ion s do anythingh arm fu l to it. Wh en the ch a rm ed con dition ends,the a wa ken ed creatu re ch ooses wh eth er to rem ainfriendly to you, ba sed on h ow you treated it whileit w a s charm ed.
FlameBlade;2;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S,M;lea f of su m ac;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You evoke a fiery blade in you r free hand. Th e blade isYou evoke a fiery blade in you r free hand. Th e blade issim ilar in size and sh ape to a scim itar, and it lasts forthe duration. If you let go of the blade, it disappea rs, butyou ca n evoke the blade again as a bon u s action.You ca n u se you r action to m ake a m elee spellattack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes3d6 fire dam age.The flam ing blade sh eds bright light in a 10-footradius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for every two slot levels above 2nd.
Contagion;5;necromancy;-;1 action;-;touch;-;-;-;-;Com ponent: V, SCom ponent: V, SDuration: 7 daysYour touch inflicts disea se. Make a m elee spell attackagainst a crea tu re within you r reach. On a hit, you afflictthe creatu re with a disea se of you r ch oice from any ofthe on es descr ibed below.At the end of ea ch of the targets turns, it m ust m akea Constitution saving throw. After failin g th ree ofth ese saving th rows, the disea ses effects last for theduration, and the creatu re stops m a kin g th ese saves.After su cceedin g on th ree of th ese saving throws, thecreatu re r ecovers from the disea se, and the spell ends.Sin ce this spell in du ces a natural disea se in itstarget, any effect that rem oves a disea se or oth erwiseam eliorates a disea ses effects apply to it.Blinding S ickn ess. Pain grips the crea tu res m ind,and its eyes turn m ilky white. Th e creatu re hasdisadvantage on W isdom ch eck s and W isdom savingth rows and is blinded.Filth Fever. A raging fever sw eeps th rough thecrea tu res body. Th e crea tu re has disadvantage onStren gth ch ecks, Stren gth saving th rows, and attackrolls that u se Strength.Flesh R ot. Th e crea tu res flesh decays. Th e creatu rehas disadvantage on Ch arism a ch eck s and vulnerabilityto all dam age.M indfire. Th e crea tu res m ind becom es feverish. Thecreatu re has disadvantage on In telligen ce ch eck s andIntelligence saving th rows, and the creatu re beh aves asif u nder the effects of the  confusion spell du rin g com bat.S eizure. Th e creatu re is overcom e with shaking.Th e creatu re has disadvantage on Dexterity ch eck s,Dexterity saving th rows, and attack rolls thatu se Dexterity.S lim y Doom . Th e creatu re begin s to bleeduncontrollably. Th e crea tu re has disadvantage onConstitution ch eck s and Constitution saving throws.In addition, wh en ever the creatu re takes dam age, it isstun n ed until the end of its next turn.
GuardsandWards;6;abjuration;-;10 minutes;-;touch;V,S,M;bu rn in g in cen se, a sm allm ea su re of brim ston e and oil, a knotted string, asm all am ount of u m ber hulk blood, and a sm all silverr od worth at least 10 gp;24 hours;-;You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square feetYou create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square feetof floor spa ce (an area 50 feet square, or on e h un dred5-foot squ a res or twenty-five 10-foot squares). Thewa rded area ca n be up to 20 feet tall, and sh aped as youdesire. You ca n ward several stories of a stron gh old bydividing the area am on g them , as lon g as you can walkinto each con tigu ou s area wh ile you are castin g the spell.W h en you cast this spell, you can specify individualsthat are u naffected by any or all of the effects thatyou ch oose. You ca n a lso sp ecify a pa ssw ord that,wh en spoken aloud, m a kes the spea ker im m u n e toth ese effects.Guards and wards crea tes the followin g effects withinthe wa rded area.Corridors. F og fills all the warded corridors, m akin gthem heavily obscu red. In addition, at each in tersectionor bran ch in g pa ssa ge offering a ch oice of direction ,there is a 50 percen t ch a n ce that a creatu re oth er thanyou will believe it is goin g in the opposite direction fromthe on e it ch ooses.Doors. All door s in the w a rded area are m agicallylocked, as if sea led by an  arcane lock spell. In addition,you ca n cover up to ten door s with an illusion (equivalentto the illusory object fu nction of the  m inor illusion spell)to m ake th em appear as plain section s of wall.S tairs. W ebs fill all stairs in the wa rded area from topto bottom , as the  web spell. Th ese strands regrow in 10m inu tes if they are bu rn ed or torn away wh ile  guardsand wards lasts.Other S pell E ffect. You can pla ce you r ch oice of on eof the followin g m a gica l effects within the w a rded areaof the stron ghold.• P la ce  dancing lights in fou r corridors. You can desig­nate a sim ple progra m that the lights repeat as lon g asguards and wards lasts.• P la ce  m agic m outh in two location s.• P la ce  stinking cloud in two location s. Th e vaporsappear in the pla ces you designate they return within10 m inu tes if dispersed by w in d wh ile  guards andwards lasts.• P la ce a constan t  gust of wind in on e corr idor or room .• P la ce a  suggestion in on e location. You select an areaof up to 5 feet square, and any crea tu re that entersor pa sses th rough the area r eceives the su ggestionmentally.Th e wh ole w a rded area radiates m a gic. A  dispelm agic cast on a specific effect, if su ccessfu l, rem ovesonly that effect.You ca n create a perm anen tly guarded and wa rdedstru ctu re by castin g this spell there every dayfor on e year.
Grease;1;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a bit of pork rind or butter;1 minutes;-;Slick grea se covers the grou n d in a 10-foot squareSlick grea se covers the grou n d in a 10-foot squarecen tered on a poin t within ran ge and turns it intodifficult terrain for the duration.W h en the grea se appears, ea ch crea tu re stan din g inits area m ust su cceed on a Dexterity saving th row or fallprone. A creatu re that enters the area or en ds its turnthere m ust also su cceed on a Dexterity saving th rowor fall prone.
Reincarnate;5;transmutation;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;rare oils and unguen ts worth atleast 1,000 gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;You tou ch a dead h u m an oid or a piece of a deadYou tou ch a dead h u m an oid or a piece of a deadhum anoid. P rovided that the crea tu re has been dead nolon ger than 10 days, the spell form s a n ew adult bodyfor it and then ca lls the sou l to enter that body. If thetargets sou l isn t free or willin g to do so, the spell fails.Th e m a gic fash ion s a n ew body for the creatu reto inhabit, wh ich likely ca u ses the crea tu res race tochange. Th e DM rolls a d 100 and con su lts the followin gtable to determ ine what form the creatu re takes whenrestored to life, or the DM ch ooses a form .d100 Race01-04 Dragonborn05-13 Dwarf, hill14-21 Dwarf, mountain22-25 Elf, dark26-34 Elf, high35-42 Elf, wood43-46 Gnome, forest47-52 Gnome, rock53-56 Half-elf57-60 Half-orc61-68 Halfling, lightfoot69-76 Halfling, stout77-96 Human97-00 TieflingTh e reincarn ated creatu re reca lls its form er lifeand experien ces. It retains the capabilities it had in itsorigin a l form , except it exch a n ges its origin al race forthe n ew on e and ch a n ges its racial traits accordingly.
Contingency;6;evocation;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;a statuette of you r self carvedfrom ivory and decora ted with gem s worth atleast 1,500 gp;10 days;-;Ch oose a spell of 5th level or lower that you can cast, thatCh oose a spell of 5th level or lower that you can cast, thathas a castin g tim e of 1 action, and that can target you.You cast that spellcalled the contingent spellas partof castin g  contingency, expending spell slots for both, butthe contingent spell doesnt com e into effect. Instead, ittakes effect wh en a certain circu m stan ce occu rs. Youdescribe that circu m stan ce when you cast the two spells.For exam ple, a  contingency cast with  water breathingm ight stipulate that  water breathing com es into effectwh en you are en gu lfed in water or a sim ilar liquid.The contingent spell takes effect im m ediately after thecircu m sta n ce is met for the first time, whether or not youwant it to. and then  contingency ends.Th e contingen t spell ta kes effect on ly on you, evenif it can norm ally target oth ers. You can u se on ly onecontingency spell at a tim e. If you cast this spell again,the effect of another  contingency spell on you ends. Also,contingency en ds on you if its m aterial com pon en t isever not on you r person .
OtilukesResilientSphere;4;evocation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a h em isph erical piece ofclear crystal and a m atching h em isph erical pieceof gum arabic;1 minutes;-;A sph ere of sh im m erin g for ce en closes a creatureA sph ere of sh im m erin g for ce en closes a creatureor object of Large size or sm aller within range. Anu nwillin g creatu re m ust m ake a Dexterity savingthrow. On a failed save, the crea tu re is en closed forthe duration.Nothin gnot ph ysical objects, energy, or oth er spelleffectsca n pa ss th rou gh the barrier, in or out, th ou gha crea tu re in the sph ere can breathe there. Th e sphereis im m u n e to all dam age, and a creatu re or object insideca n t be da m aged by attacks or effects originatin g fromoutside, n or can a creatu re in side the sph ere da m ageanything outside it.Th e sph ere is w eigh tless and ju st large en ou gh tocontain the crea tu re or object inside. An en closedcreatu re ca n u se its action to push against the sph ereswalls and thus roll the sph ere at up to h a lf the crea tu resspeed. Sim ilarly, the globe can be picked up and m ovedby oth er creatu res.A  disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys itwithout h arm in g anything in side it.
Blink;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Roll a d20 at the end of ea ch of you r turns for theRoll a d20 at the end of ea ch of you r turns for theduration of the spell. On a roll of 11 or higher, youvan ish from your curren t plane of existen ce and appearin the E thereal P la n e (the spell fails and the castin g iswasted if you w ere already on that plane). At the start ofyou r next turn, and w h en the spell en ds if you are on theE thereal Plane, you return to an u n occu pied spa ce ofyour ch oice that you ca n see within 10 feet of the spa ceyou van ish ed from . If n o u n occu pied spa ce is availablewith in that range, you appear in the n earest u n occu piedspa ce (ch osen at ran dom if m ore than on e spa ce isequally near). You ca n dism iss this spell as an action.W h ile on the E thereal P lane, you ca n see and hearthe plane you originated from , wh ich is cast in sh adesof gray, and you ca n t see anything there m ore than 60feet away. You ca n on ly affect and be affected by othercrea tu res on the E thereal P lane. Creatures that arentthere ca n t perceive you or interact with you, u n less theyhave the ability to do so.
Jump;1;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a gra ssh oppers hind leg;1 minutes;-;You tou ch a creatu re. Th e crea tu res ju m p dista n ce isYou tou ch a creatu re. Th e crea tu res ju m p dista n ce istripled until the spell ends.
WindWalk;6;transmutation;-;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;fire and h oly water;8 hours;-;You and up to ten willin g crea tu res you can seeYou and up to ten willin g crea tu res you can seewith in ran ge assu m e a ga seou s form for the duration,a ppearin g as w isps of clou d. W h ile in this clou d form ,a creatu re h as a flying speed of 300 feet and hasresista n ce to da m age from n on m a gica l w ea pon s. Th eonly action s a creatu re ca n take in th is form are theDash action or to revert to its n orm al form . Revertin gtakes 1 m inute, du ring wh ich tim e a crea tu re isincapacitated and ca n t m ove. Until the spell ends, acreatu re ca n revert to clou d form , wh ich also requ iresthe 1-minute transform ation.If a crea tu re is in clou d form an d flying w h en the effectends, the crea tu re descen ds 60 feet per rou n d for 1m inute until it lands, wh ich it does safely. If it ca n t landafter 1 minute, the crea tu re falls the rem ain in g distance.
SpiritualWeapon;2;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You create a floating, spectra l wea pon within ran ge thatYou create a floating, spectra l wea pon within ran ge thatlasts for the duration or until you cast this spell again.Wh en you cast the spell, you can m ake a m elee spellattack against a crea tu re within 5 feet of the weapon . Ona hit, the target takes force da m age equ al to 1d8 + yourspellcastin g ability m odifier.As a bon u s action on you r turn, you can m ove thewea pon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against acreatu re within 5 feet of it.Th e wea pon can take whatever form you ch oose.Clerics of deities w h o are a ssocia ted with a particularwea pon (as St. Cuthbert is kn own for his m a ceand Th or for his h am m er) m a ke this spells effectresem ble that weapon .A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sing aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by1d8 for every two slot levels above the 2nd.
PurifyFoodandDrink;1;transmutation;True;1 action;-;10 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;All n on m a gica l food and drink within a 5-foot-radiusAll n on m a gica l food and drink within a 5-foot-radiussph ere cen tered on a poin t of you r ch oice within ran ge ispurified and ren dered free of poison and disease.
ProtectionfromEnergy;3;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;F or the duration, the willin g creatu re you tou ch hasF or the duration, the willin g creatu re you tou ch hasresista n ce to on e da m age type of you r ch oice: acid, cold,fire, lightning, or thunder.
ChromaticOrb;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;a dia m on d worth at least 50 gp;instant;-;You hurl a 4-inch-diam eter sph ere of en ergy at aYou hurl a 4-inch-diam eter sph ere of en ergy at acrea tu re that you ca n see within range. You ch ooseacid, cold, fire, lightning, poison , or thunder for the typeof orb you create, and then m ake a ran ged spell attackagainst the target. If the attack hits, the creatu re takes3d8 da m age of the type you ch ose.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 1st.
Forbiddance;6;abjuration;True;10 minutes;-;touch;V,S,M;a sprin klin g of h oly water, rarein cen se, and pow der ed ruby worth at least 1,000 gp;1 day;-;You create a ward against m a gica l travel that protectsYou create a ward against m a gica l travel that protectsup to 40,000 square feet of floor spa ce to a height of 30feet above the floor. F or the duration, crea tu res ca n tteleport into the area or u se portals, such as th osecreated by the  gate spell, to enter the area. Th e spellpr oofs the area against planar travel, and th ereforeprevents crea tu res from a ccessin g the area by way ofthe Astral P lane, E thereal P lane, F eywild, Sh a dowfell,or the  plane shift spell.In addition, the spell da m a ges types of crea tu res thatyou ch oose w h en you cast it. C h oose on e or m ore of thefollowin g: celestials, elem entals, fey, fiends, and undead.W h en a ch osen creatu re enters the spells area for thefirst tim e on a turn or starts its turn there, the creaturetakes 5d10 radiant or n ecrotic da m age (your ch oicewh en you cast this spell).W h en you cast this spell, you ca n design ate apa ssword. A creatu re that spea k s the pa ssword as itenters the area takes n o da m age from the spell.Th e spells area can t overlap with the area of anotherforbiddance spell. If you cast  forbiddance every day for30 days in the sa m e location , the spell lasts until it isdispelled, and the m aterial com pon en ts are con su m edon the last casting.
RayofFrost;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A frigid bea m of blue-white light streaks toward aA frigid bea m of blue-white light streaks toward acrea tu re with in range. Make a ra n ged spell attackagainst the target. On a hit, it takes 1d8 cold dam age,and its speed is redu ced by 10 feet until the start ofyou r next turn.Th e spells da m age in crea ses by 1d8 wh en you reach5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
Symbol;7;abjuration;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;m ercury, ph osph oru s, andpow der ed dia m on d and opal with a total value of atleast 1,000 gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;W h en you cast this spell, you in scribe a harm ful glyphW h en you cast this spell, you in scribe a harm ful glypheither on a su rfa ce (such as a section of floor, a wall, ora table) or within an object that ca n be closed to con cea lthe glyph (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest).If you ch oose a su rface, the glyph can cover an area ofthe su rfa ce n o larger than 10 feet in diam eter. If youch oose an object, that object m ust rem ain in its place ifthe object is m oved m ore than 10 feet from wh ere youcast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell endswithout bein g triggered.Th e glyph is nearly invisible, requ irin g an In telligence(Investigation) ch eck against you r spell saveDC to find it.You decide what triggers the glyph wh en you cast thespell. F or glyphs in scribed on a su rface, the m ost typicaltriggers in clude tou ch in g or steppin g on the glyph,rem ovin g an oth er object coverin g it, approa ch in g withina certain dista n ce of it, or m anipulating the objectthat h olds it. F or glyphs in scribed within an object,the m ost com m on triggers are open in g the object,a pproa ch in g within a certain dista n ce of it, or seein g orreadin g the glyph.You can further refine the trigger so the spell isactivated on ly u nder certain circu m sta n ces or a ccordin gto a crea tu res ph ysical ch a ra cteristics (such as heightor weight), or ph ysical kind (for exam ple, the ward cou ldbe set to affect h ags or sh apech an gers). You ca n alsospecify crea tu res that don t trigger the glyph, su ch asth ose w h o say a certain pa ssword.W h en you in scribe the glyph, ch oose on e of theoption s below for its effect. On ce triggered, the glyphglows, filling a 60-foot-radiu s sph ere with dim lightfor 10 m inutes, after wh ich tim e the spell ends. E achcreatu re in the sph ere wh en the glyph activates istargeted by its effect, as is a crea tu re that enters thesph ere for the first tim e on a turn or en ds its turn there.Death. E a ch target m ust m ake a Constitution savingthrow, taking 10d 10 n ecrotic da m age on a failed save, orh a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l save.Discord. E a ch target m ust m ake a Constitution savingthrow. On a failed save, a target bickers and argueswith oth er crea tu res for 1 minute. Du rin g this time,it is in capable of m ea n in gfu l com m u n ica tion and hasdisadvantage on attack rolls and ability ch ecks.Fear. E a ch target m ust m ake a W isdom saving th rowand becom es frigh ten ed for 1 m inute on a failed save.W h ile frightened, the target drops whatever it is h oldin gand m ust m ove at least 30 feet away from the glyph onea ch of its turns, if able.H opelessn ess. E a ch target m ust m ake a Ch arism asaving throw. On a failed save, the target isoverwh elm ed with despair for 1 minute. Du rin g thistim e, it ca n t attack or target any creatu re with harm fu labilities, spells, or oth er m a gica l effects.Insanity. E ach target must m ake an Intelligence savingthrow. On a failed save, the target is driven in sa n e for1 minute. An in sane creatu re ca n t take actions, cantunderstan d what oth er crea tu res say, ca n t read, andspeaks only in gibberish. Th e DM con trols its m ovem ent,wh ich is erratic.Pain. E ach target m ust m ake a Constitution savingth row and becom es in capacitated with excru cia tin g painfor 1 minute on a failed save.S leep. E ach target m ust m ake a W isdom saving th rowand falls u n con sciou s for 10 m inu tes on a failed save. Acreatu re awaken s if it takes da m age or if som eon e u sesan action to sh ake or slap it awake.S tunning. E ach target m ust m ake a W isdom savingth row and becom es stunned for 1 minute on a failed save.
DelayedBlastFireball;7;evocation;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;a tiny ball of batgu a n o and sulfur;1 minutes;-;A bea m of yellow light flash es from you r poin tin g finger,A bea m of yellow light flash es from you r poin tin g finger,then con den ses to linger at a ch osen poin t with in rangeas a glowin g bea d for the duration. Wh en the spellends, either beca u se your con cen tra tion is broken orbeca u se you decide to en d it, the bea d blossom s with alow roa r into an explosion of flam e that sprea ds aroundcorn ers. E a ch creatu re in a 20-foot-radiu s spherecen tered on that poin t m ust m ake a Dexterity savingthrow. A crea tu re takes fire da m age equ al to the totalaccu m u la ted da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m uchda m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th e spells ba se da m age is 12d6. If at the en d ofyour turn the bea d has not yet detonated, the dam agein cr ea ses by 1d6.If the glowin g bea d is tou ch ed befor e the intervalhas expired, the crea tu re tou ch in g it m ust m ake aDexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the spell endsim m ediately, ca u sin g the bea d to erupt in flam e. On asu ccessfu l save, the crea tu re ca n th row the bea d up to40 feet. W h en it strikes a crea tu re or a solid object, thespell ends, and the bea d explodes.Th e fire da m a ges objects in the area and ignitesflam m able objects that aren t bein g w orn or carried.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 8th level or higher, the ba se da m agein crea ses by 1d6 for ea ch slot level above 7th.
PasswithoutTrace;2;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;ashes from a bu rned lea f ofm istletoe and a sprig of spru ce;1 hour;-;A veil of sh a dows and silen ce radiates from you,A veil of sh a dows and silen ce radiates from you,m a skin g you and you r com pa n ion s from detection.F or the duration, ea ch crea tu re you ch oose within 30feet of you (in cluding you) has a +10 bon u s to Dexterity(Stealth) ch eck s and ca n t be tracked except by m a gica lm eans. A crea tu re that r eceives this bon u s leavesbeh in d n o tracks or oth er tra ces of its pa ssa ge.
HeroesFeast;6;conjuration;-;10 minutes;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a gem -en cru sted bowl worth atleast 1,000 gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;instant;-;You brin g forth a great feast, in cluding m agn ificen tYou brin g forth a great feast, in cluding m agn ificen tfood and drink. Th e feast takes 1 h our to con su m e anddisa ppea rs at the en d of that tim e, and the ben eficialeffects don t set in until this h ou r is over. Up to twelveoth er crea tu res ca n partake of the feast.A creatu re that partakes of the feast gains severalbenefits. Th e creatu re is cu red of all disea ses andpoison , becom es im m u n e to poison and bein gfrightened, and m a kes all W isdom saving th rows withadvantage. Its hit poin t m a xim u m a lso in crea ses by2d10, and it gain s the sa m e n u m ber of hit points. Th esebenefits last for 24 hours.
ProjectImage;7;illusion;-;1 action;-;500 miles;V,S,M;a sm all replica of you m a de fromm aterials worth at least 5 gp;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 1 day'];You create an illu sory copy of you r self that lasts forYou create an illu sory copy of you r self that lasts forthe duration. Th e copy ca n appear at any locationwithin ran ge that you have seen before, rega rdless ofintervening obsta cles. Th e illusion look s and sou n dslike you but is intangible. If the illusion takes anydam age, it disappea rs, and the spell ends.You ca n u se your action to m ove this illusion up totwice your speed, and m ake it gesture, speak, andbeh ave in whatever way you ch oose. It m im ics yourm a n n erism s perfectly.You ca n see th rough its eyes and h ear th rough itsears as if you were in its space. On your turn as a bon u saction, you ca n switch from u sin g its sen ses to u sin gyou r own, or ba ck again. W h ile you are u sin g its sen ses,you are blin ded and dea fen ed in regard to your ownsu rrou n din gs.P h ysica l in teraction with the im age reveals it to be anillusion, beca u se things can pa ss th rough it. A creatu rethat u ses its action to exam in e the im age can determ inethat it is an illusion with a su ccessfu l Intelligence(Investigation) ch eck against you r spell save DC. If acrea tu re discern s the illusion for what it is, the creatu reca n see th rou gh the im age, and any n oise it m akessou n ds h ollow to the creature.
Telekinesis;5;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You gain the ability to m ove or m anipulate crea tu resYou gain the ability to m ove or m anipulate crea tu resor objects by thought. W h en you cast the spell, and asyou r action each roun d for the duration, you ca n exertyou r will on on e creatu re or object that you can seewithin range, cau sin g the appropriate effect below. Youcan affect the sa m e target roun d after round, or ch oosea n ew on e at any tim e. If you switch targets, the priortarget is n o lon ger affected by the spell.Creature. You ca n try to m ove a H uge or sm allercreatu re. Make an ability ch eck with you r spellcastin gability con tested by the crea tu res Stren gth check. Ifyou win the contest, you m ove the crea tu re up to 30 feetin any direction , in cluding u pward but not beyon d theran ge of this spell. Until the end of your next turn, thecreatu re is restrain ed in you r telekinetic grip. A creaturelifted u pward is su spen ded in mid-air.On su bsequ en t rou n ds, you can u se your action toattem pt to m aintain you r telekinetic grip on the creatureby repeatin g the contest.Object. You ca n try to m ove an object that weigh sup to 1,000 pou n ds. If the object isn t bein g worn orcarried, you autom atically m ove it up to 30 feet in anydirection , but not beyon d the ran ge of this spell.If the object is w orn or ca rried by a creature, you m ustm ake an ability ch eck with your spellcastin g abilitycon tested by that crea tu res Stren gth ch eck. If yousu cceed, you pull the object away from that creatu re andca n m ove it up to 30 feet in any direction but not beyon dthe range of this spell.You can exert fine con trol on objects with yourtelekinetic grip, such as m anipulating a sim ple tool,open in g a door or a container, stowin g or retrievingan item from an open container, or pou rin g thecontents from a vial.
PowerWordKill;9;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You utter a w ord of power that ca n com pel on e creatu reYou utter a w ord of power that ca n com pel on e creatu reyou ca n see with in ran ge to die instantly. If thecrea tu re you ch oose h a s 100 hit poin ts or fewer, it dies.Oth erwise, the spell h as n o effect.
PhantasmalForce;2;illusion;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a bit of fleece;1 minutes;-;You craft an illusion that takes r oot in the m ind of aYou craft an illusion that takes r oot in the m ind of acreatu re that you ca n see within range. Th e target m ustm ake an In telligen ce saving throw. On a failed save, youcreate a ph an tasm al object, creature, or oth er visibleph en om en on of you r ch oice that is n o larger than a10-foot cu be and that is perceivable only to the targetfor the duration. Th is spell has n o effect on undeador con stru cts.Th e phantasm in cludes sound, tem perature, and otherstimuli, also evident only to the creature.Th e target can u se its action to exam in e the phantasmwith an In telligen ce (Investigation) ch eck against yourspell save DC. If the ch eck su cceeds, the target rea lizesthat the ph an tasm is an illusion, and the spell ends.W h ile a target is affected by the spell, the target treatsthe ph an tasm as if it were real. Th e target rationalizesany illogica l ou tcom es from interacting with thephantasm . F or exam ple, a target attem pting to walka cr oss a phantasm al bridge that span s a ch a sm fallson ce it steps onto the bridge. If the target su rvives thefall, it still believes that the bridge exists and com es upwith som e oth er explanation for its fallit w a s pushed,it slipped, or a stron g win d m ight have kn ock ed it off.An affected target is so con vin ced of the ph an tasm sreality that it can even take da m age from the illusion. Aph an tasm created to appear as a crea tu re ca n attack thetarget. Sim ilarly, a phantasm crea ted to appear as fire, apool of acid, or lava ca n burn the target. E ach roun d onyou r turn, the phantasm can dea l 1d6 psych ic dam ageto the target if it is in the ph an tasm s area or within 5feet of the phantasm , provided that the illusion is of acreatu re or h azard that cou ld logically deal dam age,su ch as by attacking. Th e target perceives the da m ageas a type appropriate to the illusion.
Barkskin;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a handful of oa k bark;1 round;-;You tou ch a willin g creatu re. Until the spell ends, theYou tou ch a willin g creatu re. Until the spell ends, thetargets skin has a rough, bark-like appearan ce, and thetargets AC ca n t be less than 16, rega rdless of what kindof a rm or it is wearin g.
PhantasmalKiller;4;illusion;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You tap into the n igh tm ares of a creatu re you ca n seeYou tap into the n igh tm ares of a creatu re you ca n seewith in ran ge and create an illu sory m a nifestation of itsdeepest fears, visible on ly to that creature. Th e targetm ust m ake a W isdom saving throw. On a failed save,the target becom es frigh ten ed for the duration. At thestart of ea ch of the targets turns before the spell ends,the target m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th rowor take 4 d10 psych ic da m age. On a su ccessfu l save,the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sing aspell slot of 5th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1dlO for each slot level above 4th.
CircleofPower;5;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];Divine en ergy radiates from you, distortin g andDivine en ergy radiates from you, distortin g anddiffu sin g m a gica l en ergy within 30 feet of you. Untilthe spell ends, the sph ere m oves with you, cen tered onyou. F or the duration, each friendly creatu re in the area(in cluding you) has advantage on saving th rows againstspells and oth er m a gica l effects. Additionally, wh enan affected crea tu re su cceeds on a saving th row m adeagainst a spell or m a gica l effect that allows it to m ake asaving th row to take only h alf dam age, it instead takesn o da m age if it su cceed s on the saving throw.
Invisibility;2;illusion;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;an eyelash en ca sedin gu m arabic;1 hour;-;A creatu re you tou ch becom es invisible until the spellA creatu re you tou ch becom es invisible until the spellends. An yth ing the target is w ea rin g or carryin g isinvisible as lon g as it is on the targets person . Th e spellen ds for a target that attacks or casts a spell.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional creatu re for each slot level above 2nd.
GentleRepose;2;necromancy;True;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a pinch of salt and on e copperpiece pla ced on ea ch of the cor p ses eyes, wh ich m ustrem ain there for the duration;10 days;-;You tou ch a cor pse or oth er rem ains. F or theYou tou ch a cor pse or oth er rem ains. F or theduration, the target is protected from decay and ca n tbecom e undead.Th e spell a lso effectively exten ds the tim e lim it onraisin g the target from the dead, sin ce days spent underthe in flu ence of this spell don t cou n t against the tim elim it of spells su ch as  raise dead.
WallofFire;4;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a sm all piece of ph osph oru s;1 minutes;-;You create a wall of fire on a solid su rfa ce withinYou create a wall of fire on a solid su rfa ce withinrange. You ca n m ake the wall up to 60 feet long, 20feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a rin ged wall up to 20 feetin diam eter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. Th e wall isopa qu e and lasts for the duration.Wh en the wall appears, each crea tu re within its aream ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, acreatu re takes 5d8 fire dam age, or h alf as m uch dam ageon a su ccessfu l save.One side of the wall, selected by you wh en you castthis spell, dea ls 5d8 fire da m age to ea ch creatu re thaten ds its turn within 10 feet of that side or in side thewall. A crea tu re takes the sa m e da m age wh en it entersthe wall for the first tim e on a turn or en ds its turn there.Th e oth er side of the wall dea ls n o dam age.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 5th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 4th.
Darkvision;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;either a pin ch of driedca rrot or an agate;8 hours;-;You touch a willin g creatu re to grant it the ability toYou touch a willin g creatu re to grant it the ability tosee in the dark. F or the duration, that crea tu re hasdarkvision out to a ran ge of 60 feet.
AnimateDead;3;necromancy;-;1 minute;-;10 feet;V,S,M;a drop of blood, a piece of flesh,and a pin ch of bon e dust;instant;-;Th is spell crea tes an undead servant. C h oose a pileTh is spell crea tes an undead servant. C h oose a pileof bon es or a cor pse of a M ediu m or Sm a ll h um an oidwith in range. Your spell im bu es the target with a foulm im icry of life, raisin g it as an u ndead creature. Th etarget becom es a skeleton if you ch ose bon es or azom bie if you ch ose a cor p se (the DM has the crea tu resgam e statistics).On ea ch of your turns, you ca n u se a bon u s actionto m entally com m a n d any crea tu re you m a de withthis spell if the creatu re is with in 60 feet of you (if youcon trol m ultiple creatu res, you ca n com m a n d any or allof th em at the sa m e tim e, issu in g the sa m e com m a n d toea ch one). You decide what action the creatu re will takeand wh ere it w ill m ove du ring its next turn, or you canissu e a general com m a n d, su ch as to guard a particularch a m ber or corridor. If you issu e n o com m a n ds, thecrea tu re on ly defen ds itself against h ostile creatu res.On ce given an order, the crea tu re con tin u es to follow ituntil its task is com plete.Th e creatu re is u nder you r con trol for 24 h ours,after wh ich it stops obeyin g any com m a n d you ve givenit. To m aintain con trol of the crea tu re for another24 h ours, you m ust cast this spell on the creatu reagain before the current 24-h ou r per iod ends. Th isu se of the spell rea sserts you r con trol over up to fourcrea tu res you have anim ated with this spell, rather thanan im ating a n ew one.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, you anim ate or reassertcon trol over two additional u ndead crea tu res for eachslot level above 3rd. E a ch of the crea tu res m ust com efrom a different cor p se or pile of bon es.
CureWounds;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;A creatu re you touch regains a n u m ber of hit poin tsA creatu re you touch regains a n u m ber of hit poin tsequ al to 1d8 + you r spellca stin g ability m odifier. Th isspell has n o effect on undead or con stru cts.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, the h ealin g in crea ses by1d8 for each slot level above 1st.
DivineFavor;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Your prayer em powers you with divine radia n ce. UntilYour prayer em powers you with divine radia n ce. Untilthe spell ends, you r wea pon attacks deal an extra 1d4radiant da m age on a hit.
ColorSpray;1;illusion;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a pin ch of powder or sand that iscolored red, yellow, and blue;1 round;-;A dazzlin g array of flashing, colored light sprin gs fromA dazzlin g array of flashing, colored light sprin gs fromyou r hand. Roll 6 d10 the total is h ow m any hit pointsof crea tu res this spell can effect. Creatures in a 15-footcon e originatin g from you are affected in a scen din gorder of their curren t hit poin ts (ign orin g u n con sciou screa tu res and crea tu res that ca n t see).Startin g with the creatu re that h as the lowest currenthit points, each creatu re affected by this spell is blin deduntil the spell ends. Su btract ea ch crea tu res hit poin tsfrom the total before m ovin g on to the creatu re withthe next lowest hit points. A crea tu res hit poin ts m ustbe equ al to or less than the rem ain in g total for thatcrea tu re to be affected.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, roll an additional 2d10for each slot level above 1st.
DrawmijsInstantSummons;6;conjuration;True;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;a sapph ire w orth 1,000 gp;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You tou ch an object weigh in g 10 pou n ds or less w h oseYou tou ch an object weigh in g 10 pou n ds or less w h oselon gest dim en sion is 6 feet or less. Th e spell leaves aninvisible m ark on its su rfa ce and invisibly in scribes then a m e of the item on the sapph ire you u se as the m aterialcom pon en t. E a ch tim e you cast this spell, you m ust u sea different sapphire.At any tim e thereafter, you can u se you r action tospea k the item s n am e and cru sh the sapphire. The iteminstantly appears in you r hand rega rdless of ph ysical orplanar dista n ces, and the spell ends.If an oth er crea tu re is h oldin g or ca rryin g the item,cru sh in g the sapph ire d oesn t tran sport the item to you,but instead you learn wh o the creatu re possessin g theobject is and rou gh ly wh ere that creatu re is locatedat that m om ent.Dispel m agic or a sim ilar effect su ccessfu lly applied tothe sa pph ire en ds this spells effect.
Commune;5;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;in cen se and a vial of holy orunh oly water;1 minutes;-;You con tact you r deity or a divine proxy and ask up toYou con tact you r deity or a divine proxy and ask up toth ree qu estion s that ca n be a n swered with a yes or no.You m ust ask you r qu estion s before the spell ends. Youreceive a cor r ect a n swer for each question.Divine bein gs aren t n ecessa rily om n iscien t, so youm ight receive “u n clea r” as an an swer if a qu estionperta in s to in form ation that lies beyon d the deityskn owledge. In a ca se w h ere a on e-word a n swer cou ld bem islea din g or con tra ry to the deitys interests, the DMm ight offer a short ph ra se as an a n swer instead.If you ca st the spell tw o or m ore tim es before finishingyou r next lon g rest, there is a cum ulative 25 percen tch a n ce for ea ch castin g after the first that you get noanswer. Th e DM m a kes this roll in secret.
Passwall;5;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of sesa m e seeds;1 hour;-;A pa ssa ge appears at a poin t of your ch oice that youA pa ssa ge appears at a poin t of your ch oice that youca n see on a w ooden , plaster, or stone su rfa ce (such asa wall, a ceilin g, or a floor) within range, and lasts forthe duration. You ch oose the open in gs dim en sion s: upto 5 feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. Th e pa ssa gecrea tes no instability in a stru ctu re su rrou n din g it.Wh en the open in g disappea rs, any crea tu res orobjects still in the pa ssa ge created by the spell are safelyejected to an u n occu pied spa ce n earest to the su rfa ce onwh ich you cast the spell.
GraspingVine;4;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You con ju re a vine that sprou ts from the grou n d in anYou con ju re a vine that sprou ts from the grou n d in anu n occu pied spa ce of you r ch oice that you can see withinrange. W h en you cast this spell, you ca n direct the vineto lash out at a crea tu re within 30 feet of it that you cansee. That creatu re m ust su cceed on a Dexterity savingth row or be pu lled 20 feet directly toward the vine.Until the spell ends, you ca n direct the vine to lash outat the sa m e creatu re or a n oth er on e as a bon u s actionon ea ch of you r turns.
Confusion;4;enchantment;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;three nut shells;1 minutes;-;Th is spell assaults and twists crea tu res m inds,Th is spell assaults and twists crea tu res m inds,spawn in g delu sion s and provokin g u n con trolled action.E ach crea tu re in a 10-foot-radius sph ere cen tered ona poin t you ch oose within ran ge m ust su cceed on aW isdom saving th row wh en you cast this spell or beaffected by it.An affected target ca n t take reaction s and m ust rolla d 10 at the start of ea ch of its turns to determ ine itsbeh avior for that turn.At the en d of ea ch of its turns, an affected target canm ake a W isdom saving throw. If it su cceeds, this effecten ds for that target.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the spherein crea ses by 5 feet for ea ch slot level above 4th.
Clone;8;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;a dia m on d worth at least 1,000gp and at least 1 cu bic in ch of flesh of the creaturethat is to be clon ed, wh ich the spell con su m es, and avessel worth at least 2,000 gp that has a sea la ble lidand is large en ou gh to h old a Mediu m creature, su chas a huge urn, coffin, m ud-filled cyst in the grou nd, orcrystal con tain er filled with salt water;instant;-;Th is spell grows an inert duplicate of a living creatu reTh is spell grows an inert duplicate of a living creatu reas a sa fegu ard against death. Th is clon e form s insidea sea led vessel and grow s to full size and maturityafter 120 days you ca n a lso ch oose to have the clon ebe a you n ger version of the sa m e creatu re. It rem ainsin ert and en du res indefinitely, as lon g as its vesselrem ain s undisturbed.At any tim e after the clon e m atures, if the originalcrea tu re dies, its sou l tran sfers to the clon e, providedthat the sou l is free and willin g to return. Th e clon e isphysically identical to the origin al and has the sa m epersonality, m em ories, and abilities, but n on e of theorigin a ls equipm ent. Th e origin a l crea tu res physicalrem ains, if they still exist, becom e inert and ca n tth ereafter be restored to life, sin ce the crea tu res sou lis elsewh ere.
SeeInvisibility;2;divination;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a pinch of talc and a sm allsprin klin g of powdered silver;1 hour;-;F or the duration, you see invisible crea tu res and objectsF or the duration, you see invisible crea tu res and objectsas if they were visible, and you ca n see into the E therealP lane. Ethereal crea tu res and objects appear ghostlyand translucent.
Scrying;5;divination;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;a focu s worth at least 1,000 gp,su ch as a crystal ball, a silver m irror, or a font filledwith h oly water;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You ca n see and h ear a particu lar crea tu re you ch ooseYou ca n see and h ear a particu lar crea tu re you ch oosethat is on the sa m e plane of existen ce as you. Th e targetm ust m ake a W isdom saving throw, wh ich is m odifiedby h ow well you k n ow the target and the sort of physicalcon n ection you have to it. If a target k n ows youreca stin g this spell, it ca n fail the saving th row voluntarilyif it wants to be observed.Knowledge Save ModifierSecondhand (you have heard of the target) +5Firsthand (you have met the target) +0Familiar (you know the target well) -5Connection Save ModifierLikeness or picture -2Possession or garment -4Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, or the like -10On a su ccessfu l save, the target isn t affected, and youca n t u se this spell against it again for 24 hours.On a failed save, the spell crea tes an invisible sen sorwithin 10 feet of the target. You can see and hear throughthe sen sor as if you w ere there. Th e sen sor m oves withthe target, rem ain in g within 10 feet of it for the duration.A crea tu re that ca n see invisible objects sees the sen soras a lu m in ou s orb about the size of your fist.Instead of targeting a creature, you ca n ch oose aloca tion you have seen before as the target of this spell.W h en you do, the sen sor appears at that loca tion andd oesn t m ove.
Bane;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a drop of blood;1 minutes;-;Up to th ree crea tu res of you r ch oice that you ca n seeUp to th ree crea tu res of you r ch oice that you ca n seewithin ran ge m ust m ake Ch arism a saving throws.Wh en ever a target that fails this saving th row m a kesan attack roll or a saving th row before the spell ends,the target m ust roll a d4 and subtract the n u m ber rolledfrom the attack roll or saving throw.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional crea tu re for each slot level above 1st.
Telepathy;8;evocation;-;1 action;-;Unlimited;V,S,M;a pair of lin ked silver rings;24 hours;-;You create a telepathic lin k between you r self andYou create a telepathic lin k between you r self anda willin g creatu re with wh ich you are fam iliar. Th ecrea tu re ca n be an ywh ere on the sa m e plane ofexisten ce as you. Th e spell en ds if you or the target aren o lon ger on the sa m e plane.Until the spell ends, you and the target canin stan taneou sly sh are words, im ages, sou n ds, andoth er sen sor y m essa ges with on e an oth er th rough thelink, and the target r ecogn izes you as the crea tu re itis com m u n ica tin g with. Th e spell en ables a creatu rewith an In telligence scor e of at least 1 to understandthe m ea n in g of you r w ords and take in the scop e of anysen sor y m essa ges you sen d to it.
EnsnaringStrike;1;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a w ea pon attackTh e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a w ea pon attackbefore this spell ends, a writh in g m a ss of th orny vinesappears at the poin t of im pact, and the target m ustsu cceed on a Stren gth saving th row or be restrain ed bythe m a gica l vin es until the spell ends. A Large or largercreatu re has advantage on this saving throw. If thetarget su cceed s on the save, the vin es shrivel away.W h ile restrained by this spell, the target takes 1d6piercing dam age at the start of each of its turns. A creaturerestrained by the vines or on e that can tou ch the creatureca n u se its action to m ake a Stren gth ch eck against yourspell save DC. On a su ccess, the target is freed.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell u sin g a spellslot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by 1d6for ea ch slot level above 1st.
CircleofDeath;6;necromancy;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;the powder of a cru sh ed blackpea rl worth at least 500 gp;instant;-;A sph ere of negative en ergy ripples out in a 60-foot-A sph ere of negative en ergy ripples out in a 60-foot-radius sph ere from a poin t within range. E a ch creatu rein that area m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw. Atarget takes 8d6 n ecrotic da m age on a failed save, orh a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 7th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by2d6 for each slot level above 6th.
SpikeGrowth;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;seven sh arp th orn s or sevensm all twigs, each sh a rpen ed to a point;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];Th e grou n d in a 20-foot radius centered on a pointTh e grou n d in a 20-foot radius centered on a pointwithin ran ge twists and sprou ts hard spikes and thorns.Th e area becom es difficult terrain for the duration.Wh en a creatu re m oves into or within the area, it takes2d4 piercin g da m age for every 5 feet it travels.Th e tran sform ation of the grou n d is ca m ou fla ged tolook natural. Any creatu re that ca n t see the area at thetim e the spell is cast m ust m ake a W isdom (P erception )ch eck against your spell save DC to r ecogn ize theterrain as h a za rdou s before entering it.
Wish;9;conjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;instant;-;Wish is the m ightiest spell a m ortal crea tu re canWish is the m ightiest spell a m ortal crea tu re cancast. By sim ply speakin g aloud, you can alter the veryfou ndation s of reality in a ccord with your desires.Th e ba sic u se of this spell is to duplicate any otherspell of 8th level or lower. You don t n eed to m eet anyrequ irem en ts in that spell, in cluding costly com pon en ts.Th e spell sim ply takes effect.Alternatively, you ca n create on e of the followin geffects of you r ch oice:• You create on e object of up to 25,000 gp in value thatisn t a m a gic item. Th e object ca n be no m ore than300 feet in any dim en sion , and it appears in an u n oc­cu pied spa ce you can see on the ground.• You allow up to twenty crea tu res that you ca n see toregain all hit points, and you en d all effects on themdescr ibed in the  greater restoration spell.• You grant up to ten crea tu res that you can see r esis­ta n ce to a da m age type you ch oose.• You grant up to ten crea tu res you can see im m u nity toa single spell or oth er m a gica l effect for 8 h ours. Forin stan ce, you cou ld m a ke you r self an d all you r com ­pa n ion s im m u n e to a lich s life drain attack.• You u ndo a sin gle recen t event by forcin g a reroll ofany roll m a de within the last rou n d (in cluding yourlast turn). Reality resh a pes itself to a ccom m oda te then ew result. F or exam ple, a  wish spell cou ld u n do anoppon en ts su ccessfu l save, a foes critical hit, or afrien ds failed save. You ca n force the reroll to be m adewith advantage or disadvantage, an d you ca n ch oosewh eth er to u se the reroll or the origin al roll.You m ight be able to ach ieve som eth in g beyon d thescop e of the above exam ples. State you r wish to the DMas precisely as possible. Th e DM h as great latitude inruling what occu r s in su ch an in stan ce the greater thewish , the greater the lik elih ood that som eth in g goeswron g. Th is spell m ight sim ply fail, the effect you desirem ight on ly be partly achieved, or you m ight suffer som eu n foreseen con sequ en ce as a result of h ow you wordedthe wish . F or exam ple, wish in g that a villain w ere deadm ight propel you forwa rd in tim e to a period wh en thatvillain is n o lon ger alive, effectively rem ovin g you fromthe gam e. Sim ilarly, wish in g for a legendary m a gic itemor artifact m ight instantly tran sport you to the presen ceof the item s curren t owner.Th e stress of castin g this spell to produ ce any effectoth er than duplicating another spell w ea k en s you. Afteren du rin g that stress, ea ch tim e you cast a spell untilyou finish a lon g rest, you take 1d10 n ecrotic da m ageper level of that spell. Th is da m age ca n t be redu ced orprevented in any way. In addition, you r Stren gth dropsto 3, if it isn t 3 or lower already, for 2d4 days. F or eachof th ose days that you spen d restin g and doin g n oth ingm ore than light activity, you r rem ain in g recovery timedecrea ses by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 percen tch a n ce that you are u nable to cast  wish ever again if yousuffer this stress.
Alarm;1;abjuration;True;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a tiny bell and a piece offine silver wire;8 hours;-;You set an alarm against unwanted intrusion. Ch ooseYou set an alarm against unwanted intrusion. Ch oosea door, a win dow, or an area within ran ge that is nolarger than a 20-foot cu be. Until the spell ends, an alarmalerts you wh en ever a Tin y or larger creatu re tou ch esor enters the w a rded area. Wh en you cast the spell, youca n design ate crea tu res that w on t set off the alarm . Youa lso ch oose whether the alarm is m ental or audible.A m ental alarm alerts you with a pin g in you r m indif you are within 1 m ile of the wa rded area. Th is pingawaken s you if you are sleeping.An audible alarm pr odu ces the sou n d of a h an d bellfor 10 secon d s within 60 feet.
WallofThorns;6;conjuration;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a h andful of thorns;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You crea te a wall of tough, pliable, tangled brushYou crea te a wall of tough, pliable, tangled brushbristling with n eedle-sh arp thorns. Th e wall appearswithin ran ge on a solid su rfa ce and lasts for theduration. You ch oose to m ake the wall up to 60 feetlong, 10 feet high, and 5 feet th ick or a circle that hasa 20-foot diam eter and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feetthick. Th e wall block s lin e of sight.W h en the wall appears, ea ch crea tu re within its aream ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save,a creatu re takes 7d8 piercin g dam age, or h a lf as m u chda m age on a su ccessfu l save.A crea tu re ca n m ove th rough the wall, albeit slowlyand painfully. F or every 1 foot a creatu re m ovesth rou gh the wall, it m ust spen d 4 feet of m ovem ent.F u rtherm ore, the first tim e a creatu re enters the wallon a turn or en ds its turn there, the crea tu re m ustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 7d8 slashin gda m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on asu ccessfu l one.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 7th level or higher, both types of dam agein crea se by 1d8 for each slot level above 6th.
SpiritGuardians;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a holy sym bol;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You call forth spirits to protect you. They flit arou nd youYou call forth spirits to protect you. They flit arou nd youto a dista n ce of 15 feet for the duration. If you are goodor neutral, their spectra l form appears an gelic or fey(your ch oice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.W h en you cast this spell, you can design ate anyn u m ber of crea tu res you can see to be u naffected by it.An affected crea tu res speed is halved in the area, andwh en the creatu re enters the area for the first tim e ona turn or starts its turn there, it m ust m ake a W isdomsaving throw. On a failed save, the creatu re takes 3d8radiant da m age (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8n ecrotic da m age (if you are evil). On a su ccessfu l save,the creatu re takes h alf as m uch dam age.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sing aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 3rd.
DetectThoughts;2;divination;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a copper piece;1 minutes;-;F or the duration, you ca n read the th ou gh ts of certainF or the duration, you ca n read the th ou gh ts of certaincrea tu res. Wh en you cast the spell and as you r action oneach turn until the spell ends, you ca n focu s you r m indon any on e crea tu re that you can see within 30 feet ofyou. If the crea tu re you ch oose h as an In telligence of3 or lower or d oesn t spea k any language, the creatu reis unaffected.You initially learn the su rfa ce th ou gh ts of thecrea tu rewhat is m ost on its m ind in that m om ent. Asan action, you ca n either shift you r attention to anothercrea tu res thoughts or attem pt to probe deeper into thesa m e crea tu res m ind. If you probe deeper, the targetm ust m ake a W isdom saving throw. If it fails, you gaininsight into its r ea son in g (if any), its em otion al state,and som eth in g that loom s large in its m ind (such assom eth in g it w orr ies over, loves, or hates). If it su cceeds,the spell ends. Either way, the target k n ows that you areprobin g into its m ind, and u n less you shift you r attentionto another crea tu res thoughts, the crea tu re ca n useits action on its turn to m ake an Intelligence ch eckcon tested by your Intelligence check if it su cceeds,the spell ends.Qu estion s verbally directed at the target creatu renaturally sh ape the cou r se of its thoughts, so this spellis particularly effective as part of an interrogation.You ca n a lso u se this spell to detect the pr esen ce ofth in kin g crea tu res you ca n t see. W h en you cast thespell or as you r action du ring the duration, you cansea rch for th ou gh ts within 30 feet of you. Th e spell canpenetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock, 2 in ch es of anym etal oth er than lead, or a thin sh eet of lead block s you.You ca n t detect a creatu re with an Intelligen ce of 3 orlower or on e that doesn t spea k any language.On ce you detect the pr esen ce of a crea tu re in this way,you ca n read its thoughts for the rest of the duration asdescr ibed above, even if you ca n t see it, but it m ust stillbe within range.
FleshtoStone;6;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of lim e, water, an d earth;1 minutes;-;You attem pt to turn on e creatu re that you can see withinYou attem pt to turn on e creatu re that you can see withinran ge into stone. If the targets body is m a de of flesh, thecrea tu re m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw. On afailed save, it is restrained as its flesh begin s to harden.On a su ccessfu l save, the crea tu re isn t affected.A crea tu re restrain ed by this spell m ust m ake anotherConstitution saving th row at the end of each of its turns.If it su ccessfu lly saves against this spell th ree tim es, thespell ends. If it fails its saves th ree tim es, it is turnedto stone and su bjected to the petrified con dition for theduration. Th e su ccesses and failures don t n eed to beconsecu tive keep track of both until the target collectsth ree of a kind.If the creatu re is physically broken wh ile petrified,it su ffers from sim ilar deform ities if it reverts to itsorigin a l state.If you m aintain you r con cen tra tion on this spell for theentire possible duration, the creatu re is tu rned to stoneuntil the effect is rem oved.
TashasHideousLaughter;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;tiny tarts and a feather that iswaved in the air;1 minutes;-;A creatu re of your ch oice that you ca n see within rangeA creatu re of your ch oice that you ca n see within rangeperceives everyth in g as h ilariously funny and fallsinto fits of laughter if this spell affects it. Th e targetm ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row or fall prone,becom in g in capacitated and unable to stand up for theduration. A creatu re with an Intelligen ce scor e of 4 orless isn t affected.At the en d of each of its turns, and each tim e it takesdam age, the target ca n m ake an oth er W isdom savingthrow. Th e target has advantage on the saving th row ifits triggered by dam age. On a su ccess, the spell ends.
ConeofCold;5;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a sm all crystal or glass con e;instant;-;A blast of cold air erupts from you r hands. E achA blast of cold air erupts from you r hands. E achcreatu re in a 60-foot con e m ust m ake a Constitutionsaving throw. A creatu re takes 8d8 cold da m age on afailed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.A crea tu re killed by this spell becom es a frozen statueuntil it thaws.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 5th.
MassSuggestion;6;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,M;a sn a kes ton gue and either a bit ofh on eycom b or a drop of sweet oil;24 hours;-;You su ggest a cou r se of activity (lim ited to a sen ten ceYou su ggest a cou r se of activity (lim ited to a sen ten ceor two) and m a gica lly in flu ence up to twelve crea tu resof you r ch oice that you ca n see within ran ge and thatcan h ear and understan d you. Creatures that ca n t bech a rm ed are im m u n e to this effect. Th e su ggestion m ustbe w orded in su ch a m a n n er as to m ake the cou r se ofaction sou n d reason able. Askin g the creatu re to stabitself, th row itself on to a spear, im m olate itself, or dosom e oth er obviou sly h arm fu l act autom atically n egatesthe effect of the spell.E ach target m ust m ake a W isdom saving throw. On afailed save, it pu rsu es the cou r se of action you descr ibedto the best of its ability. Th e su ggested cou r se of actionca n con tin u e for the entire duration. If the su ggestedactivity ca n be com pleted in a sh orter tim e, the spellen ds w h en the su bject fin ish es what it w a s asked to do.You ca n a lso specify con dition s that will trigger aspecia l activity du ring the duration. F or exam ple, youm ight su ggest that a grou p of soldiers give all theirm on ey to the first begga r they m eet. If the con dition isntm et before the spell ends, the activity isn t perform ed.If you or any of you r com pa n ion s da m age a creatu reaffected by this spell, the spell en ds for that creature.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa 7th level spell slot, the duration is 10 days. W h enyou u se an 8th level spell slot, the duration is 30 days.W h en you u se a 9th level spell slot, the duration is ayear and a day.
Sanctuary;1;abjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a sm all silver m irror;1 minutes;-;You ward a creatu re within ran ge against attack. UntilYou ward a creatu re within ran ge against attack. Untilthe spell ends, any creatu re w h o targets the wardedcreatu re with an attack or a harm fu l spell m ust firstm ake a W isdom saving throw. On a failed save, thecreatu re m ust ch oose a n ew target or lose the attackor spell. Th is spell d oesn t protect the w a rded creaturefrom area effects, su ch as the explosion of a fireball.If the warded creature m a kes an attack or casts a spellthat affects an en em y creatu re, this spell ends.
Creation;5;illusion;-;1 minute;-; 30 feet;-;-;-;-;Components:  V, S, M (a tiny piece of m atter of the sam eComponents:  V, S, M (a tiny piece of m atter of the sam etype of the item you plan to create)Duration:  Specia lYou pull w isps of sh a dow m aterial from the Sh a dowfellto crea te a n onliving object of vegetable m atter withinrange: soft goods, rope, w ood, or som eth in g sim ilar. Youca n a lso u se this spell to crea te m ineral objects su ch asstone, crystal, or m etal. Th e object created m ust be nolarger than a 5-foot cu be, and the object m ust be of aform and m aterial that you have seen before.Th e duration depen ds on the objects m aterial. Ifthe object is com p osed of m ultiple m aterials, u se thesh ortest duration.U sin g any m aterial created by this spell as anotherspells m aterial com pon en t ca u ses that spell to fail.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the cu be in crea ses by 5feet for each slot level above 5th.
Prestidigitation;0;Transmutation;-;1 action;-;10 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;Th is spell is a m in or m a gica l trick that n oviceTh is spell is a m in or m a gica l trick that n ovicespellca sters u se for practice. You create on e of thefollowin g m a gica l effects within range:• You create an instan taneou s, h a rm less sen sor y effect,su ch as a sh ower of sparks, a pu ff of win d, faint m u si­ca l notes, or an odd odor.• You in stan taneou sly light or sn u ff out a can dle, atorch, or a sm all cam pfire.• You in stan taneou sly clean or soil an object n o largerthan 1 cu bic foot.• You chill, warm , or flavor up to 1 cu bic foot of nonliv­in g m aterial for 1 hour.• You m ake a color, a sm all m ark, or a sym bol appearon an object or a su rfa ce for 1 hour.• You create a n on m a gica l trinket or an illusory im agethat ca n fit in your h an d and that lasts until the end ofyou r next turn.If you cast this spell m ultiple tim es, you ca n have up toth ree of its n on -in stan taneou s effects active at a time,and you ca n dism iss su ch an effect as an action.
Simulacrum;7;illusion;-;12 hours;-;touch;V,S,M;sn ow or ice in quantitiessufficient to m a de a life-size copy of the duplicatedcreatu re som e hair, fingernail clippings, or otherpiece of that crea tu res body pla ced inside the sn owor ice and pow dered ruby worth 1,500 gp, sprin kledover the duplicate and con su m ed by the spell;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You sh ape an illu sory duplicate of on e bea st orYou sh ape an illu sory duplicate of on e bea st orh um an oid that is within ran ge for the entire castin gtim e of the spell. Th e duplicate is a creature, partiallyreal and form ed from ice or snow, and it ca n takeaction s and oth erwise be affected as a n orm al creature.It appears to be the sa m e as the original, but it has h alfthe crea tu res hit poin t m a xim u m and is form ed withoutany equipm ent. Oth erwise, the illusion u ses all thestatistics of the creatu re it duplicates.Th e sim u lacru m is friendly to you and crea tu res youdesignate. It obeys you r spoken com m a n ds, m ovin gand acting in a ccorda n ce with you r w ish es and actingon your turn in com ba t. Th e sim u lacru m la cks theability to learn or becom e m ore powerfu l, so it neverin crea ses its level or oth er abilities, nor can it regainexpen ded spell slots.If the sim u la cru m is dam aged, you ca n repair it in ana lch em ica l laboratory, u sin g rare h erbs and m ineralsw orth 100 gp per hit poin t it regains. Th e sim u lacru mlasts until it drops to 0 hit points, at w h ich point itreverts to sn ow and m elts instantly.If you cast this spell again, any currentlyactive duplicates you crea ted with this spell areinstantly destroyed.
Web;2;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a bit of spiderweb;1 round;-;You con ju re a m a ss of thick, sticky webbin g at a poin t ofYou con ju re a m a ss of thick, sticky webbin g at a poin t ofyou r ch oice within range. Th e w ebs fill a 20-foot cu befrom that poin t for the duration. Th e w ebs are difficultterrain and lightly obscu r e their area.If the w ebs arent a n ch ored between two solid m a sses(such as walls or trees) or layered a cr oss a floor, wall,or ceilin g, the con ju red web colla pses on itself, and thespell en ds at the start of you r n ext turn. W ebs layeredover a flat su rfa ce have a depth of 5 feet.E a ch creatu re that starts its turn in the w ebs or thatenters th em during its turn m ust m ake a Dexteritysaving throw. On a failed save, the creatu re is restrainedas lon g as it rem ain s in the w ebs or until it brea ks free.A crea tu re restrain ed by the w ebs ca n u se its action tom ake a Stren gth ch eck against you r spell save DC. If itsu cceeds, it is n o lon ger restrained.Th e w ebs are flam m able. Any 5-foot cu be of w ebsexposed to fire bu rn s away in 1 round, dealin g 2d4 fireda m age to any crea tu re that starts its turn in the fire.
Teleport;7;conjuration;-;1 action;-;10 feet;V;-;instant;-;Th is spell instantly tran sports you and up to eightTh is spell instantly tran sports you and up to eightwillin g crea tu res of your ch oice that you ca n see withinrange, or a single object that you can see within range,to a destin ation you select. If you target an object, itm ust be able to fit entirely inside a 10-foot cu be, and itca n t be held or ca rried by an u nwillin g creature.Th e destin ation you ch oose m ust be kn own to you,and it m ust be on the sa m e plane of existen ce asyou. Your fam iliarity with the destination determ in eswhether you arrive there su ccessfu lly. Th e DM rollsd 100 and con su lts the table.Familiarity MishapSimilarAreaOffTargetOnTargetPermanent circle  01-100Associated object    01-100Very familiar 01-05 06-13 14-24 25-100Seen casually 01-33 34-43 44-53 54-100Viewed once 01-43 44-53 54-73 74-100Description 01-43 44-53 54-73 74-100False destination 01-50 51-100 Fam iliarity. “P erm an en t circle” m ea n s a perm anen tteleportation circle w h ose sigil sequ en ce you know.“Associa ted object” m ea n s that you p ossess an objecttaken from the desired destination within the last sixm on th s, su ch as a book from a wiza r ds library, bedlinen from a royal suite, or a ch u n k of m arble from alich s secret tom b.“Very fam ilia r” is a pla ce you have been very often, apla ce you have carefu lly studied, or a pla ce you can seewh en you cast the spell. “S een ca su a lly” is som epla ceyou have seen m ore than on ce but with w h ich you arentvery fam iliar. “Viewed on ce” is a pla ce you have seenon ce, possibly u sin g m agic. “Description ” is a pla cew h ose loca tion and appea ra n ce you k n ow th roughsom eon e elses description, perhaps from a map.“False destin ation ” is a pla ce that d oesn t exist.P erh aps you tried to scr y an en em ys sa n ctu m butinstead viewed an illusion, or you are attem pting toteleport to a fam iliar location that no lon ger exists.On Target. You and you r grou p (or the target object)appear wh ere you want to.O ff Target. You and you r grou p (or the target object)appear a ran dom dista n ce away from the destinationin a ran dom direction . Distan ce off target is 1d10 x1d10 percen t of the dista n ce that was to be traveled.F or exam ple, if you tried to travel 120 m iles, landed offtarget, and rolled a 5 and 3 on the two d 10s, then youwou ld be off target by 15 percen t, or 18 m iles. Th e DMdeterm in es the direction off target ran dom ly by rollin g ad8 and design atin g 1 as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as east,and so on arou nd the poin ts of the com pa ss. If you wereteleportin g to a coa sta l city and w ou n d up 18 m iles outat sea, you cou ld be in trouble.S im ilar A rea. You and your grou p (or the targetobject) win d up in a different area thats visually orthem atically sim ilar to the target area. If you areh eadin g for you r h om e laboratory, for exam ple, youm ight win d up in an oth er w iza r ds laboratory or inan a lch em ica l supply sh op that has m any of the sa m etools and im plem en ts as your laboratory. Generally,you appear in the closest sim ilar place, but sin ce thespell has n o ran ge limit, you cou ld con ceivably win d upan ywh ere on the plane.M ishap. Th e spells unpredictable m a gic resu lts in adifficult journey. E ach teleportin g creatu re (or the targetobject) takes 3d10 for ce dam age, and the DM rerolls onthe table to see wh ere you win d up (multiple m ish apsca n occu r, dea lin g da m age ea ch time).
IllusoryScript;1;illusion;True;1 minute;-;touch;S,M;a lea d-ba sed ink worth at least 10gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;10 days;-;You write on parchm ent, paper, or som e oth er suitableYou write on parchm ent, paper, or som e oth er suitablewritin g m aterial and im bu e it with a potent illusion thatlasts for the duration.To you and any crea tu res you design ate w h en youcast the spell, the writin g appears norm al, written inyour hand, and con veys whatever m ea n in g you intendedwh en you wrote the text. To all others, the writingappears as if it were written in an u n kn own or m agicalscript that is unintelligible. Alternatively, you can ca u sethe writin g to appear to be an entirely different m essa ge,written in a different hand and language, th ou gh thelanguage m ust be on e you know.Sh ou ld the spell be dispelled, the origin al script andthe illusion both disappear.A crea tu re with truesight can read thehidden m essa ge.
Heroism;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A willin g creatu re you tou ch is im bu ed with bravery.A willin g creatu re you tou ch is im bu ed with bravery.Until the spell ends, the crea tu re is im m u n e to bein gfrigh ten ed an d gains tem pora ry hit poin ts equ al toyou r spellca stin g ability m odifier at the start of eachof its turns. Wh en the spell ends, the target loses anyrem ain in g tem pora ry hit points from this spell.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional crea tu re for ea ch slot level above 1st.
MirageArcane;7;illusion;-;10 minutes;-;sight;V,S;-;10 days;-;You m ake terrain in an area up to 1 m ile squareYou m ake terrain in an area up to 1 m ile squarelook, sou n d, sm ell, and even feel like som e oth er sortof terrain. Th e terrains general shape rem ain s thesa m e, h owever. Open fields or a road cou ld be m ade tor esem ble a swam p, hill, crevasse, or som e oth er difficultor im passable terrain. A pon d ca n be m ade to seem likea gra ssy m eadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or arock-strewn gully like a wide and sm ooth road.Sim ilarly, you ca n alter the a ppea ra n ce of stru ctu res,or add th em wh ere n on e are present. Th e spell doesn tdisgu ise, con cea l, or add creatu res.Th e illusion in cludes audible, visual, tactile, andolfa ctory elem ents, so it can turn clear grou n d intodifficult terrain (or vice versa) or oth erwise im pedem ovem en t th rough the area. An y piece of the illusoryterrain (such as a r ock or stick) that is rem oved from thespells area disa ppea rs im m ediately.Creatures with truesight ca n see th rough the illusionto the terrains true form  however, all oth er elem entsof the illusion rem ain, so wh ile the creatu re is aware ofthe illusion s pr esen ce, the crea tu re ca n still physicallyinteract with the illusion.
Gate;9;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a diam on d worth at least 5,000 gp;1 minutes;-;You con ju re a portal lin kin g an u n occu pied spa ce youYou con ju re a portal lin kin g an u n occu pied spa ce youca n see within ran ge to a precise location on a differentplane of existence. Th e porta l is a circu la r open in g,wh ich you can m ake 5 to 20 feet in diam eter. You canorient the porta l in any direction you ch oose. Th e portallasts for the duration.The portal h as a front and a ba ck on ea ch plane wh ereit appears. Travel th rough the portal is possible on lyby m ovin g th rough its front. An yth ing that does so isinstantly tran sported to the oth er plane, appearin g inthe u n occu pied spa ce n earest to the portal.Deities and oth er planar rulers can prevent porta lscrea ted by this spell from open in g in their pr esen ce oran ywh ere within their dom ain s.W h en you cast this spell, you ca n spea k the nam eof a specific crea tu re (a pseu don ym , title, or n ickn am ed oesn t work). If that creatu re is on a plane oth er thanthe on e you are on, the porta l open s in the n am edcrea tu res im m ediate vicinity and draws the creatureth rou gh it to the n earest u n occu pied spa ce on you r sideof the portal. You gain n o specia l power over the creature,and it is free to act as the DM deem s appropriate. Itm ight leave, attack you, or help you.
Shillelagh;0;Transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;touch;V,S,M;m istletoe, a sh a m rock leaf, and aclub or quarterstaff;1 minutes;-;Th e w ood of a club or qu arterstaff you are h oldin g isTh e w ood of a club or qu arterstaff you are h oldin g isim bu ed with natures power. F or the duration, you canu se you r spellcastin g ability instead of Stren gth forthe attack and da m age rolls of m elee attacks u singthat wea pon , and the wea pon s da m age die becom esa d8. Th e wea pon also becom es m a gica l, if it isntalready. Th e spell en ds if you cast it again or if you let goof the weapon .
BladeBarrier;6;evocation;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You create a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sh arp bladesYou create a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sh arp bladesm ade of m a gica l energy. Th e wall appears within rangeand lasts for the duration. You can m ake a straight wallup to 100 feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or aringed wall up to 60 feet in diam eter, 20 feet high, and5 feet thick. Th e wall provides th ree-qu arters cover tocrea tu res beh in d it, and its spa ce is difficult terrain.W h en a creatu re enters the w a lls area for the firsttim e on a turn or starts its turn there, the creatu re m ustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, thecrea tu re ta kes 6 d10 slash in g dam age. On a su ccessfu lsave, the creatu re ta kes h a lf as m u ch dam age.
RayofEnfeeblement;2;necromancy;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A bla ck bea m of enervating en ergy sprin gs from yourA bla ck bea m of enervating en ergy sprin gs from yourfinger toward a crea tu re with in range. Make a ran gedspell attack against the target. On a hit, the target dealson ly h a lf da m age with wea pon attacks that u se Stren gthuntil the spell ends.At the en d of ea ch of the targets turns, it ca n m akea Constitution saving th row against the spell. On asu ccess, the spell ends.
Earthquake;8;evocation;-;1 action;-;500 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of dirt, a piece of rock,and a lum p of clay;1 minutes;-;You create a seism ic distu rban ce at a point on theYou create a seism ic distu rban ce at a point on thegrou n d that you ca n see within range. For the duration,an in ten se trem or rips th rough the grou n d in a100-foot-radius circle cen tered on that point and sh akescrea tu res and stru ctu res in con tact with the grou n din that area.Th e grou n d in the area becom es difficult terrain.E ach creatu re on the grou n d that is con cen tra tin g m ustm ake a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, thecrea tu res con cen tra tion is broken.Wh en you cast this spell and at the en d of ea ch turnyou spen d con cen tra tin g on it, each creatu re on thegrou n d in the area m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw.On a failed save, the creatu re is kn ock ed prone.Th is spell can have additional effects depen din g onthe terrain in the area, as determ in ed by the DM.Fissu res. F issu res open th roughou t the spells area atthe start of your next turn after you cast the spell. A totalof 1d6 su ch fissu res open in loca tion s ch osen by the DM.E ach is 1d10 x 10 feet deep, 10 feet wide, and exten dsfrom on e edge of the spells area to the opposite side.A creatu re standing on a spot w h ere a fissu re open sm ust su cceed on a Dexterity saving th row or fall in. Acreatu re that su ccessfu lly saves m oves with the fissu resedge as it open s.A fissu re that open s ben eath a stru ctu re ca u ses it toautom atically colla pse (see below).S tructures. Th e trem or dea ls 50 blu dgeon in g dam ageto any stru ctu re in con tact with the grou n d in the areawh en you cast the spell and at the start of each of yourturns until the spell ends. If a stru ctu re drops to 0 hitpoints, it colla pses and potentially da m a ges n earbycreatu res. A crea tu re within h a lf the dista n ce of astru ctu res height m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw.On a failed save, the creatu re takes 5d6 blu dgeon in gdam age, is kn ock ed prone, and is bu ried in the rubble,requ irin g a DC 20 Stren gth (Athletics) ch eck as anaction to esca pe. Th e DM can adjust the DC h igheror lower, depen din g on the nature of the rubble. Ona su ccessfu l save, the creatu re takes h alf as m u chda m age and doesn t fall pron e or becom e buried.
ControlWeather;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;8 th-Ievel transmutation8 th-Ievel transmutationCasting Time:  10 m inutesRange:  S elf (5-m ile radius)Components:  V, S, M (bu rnin g in cen se and bits of earthand w ood m ixed in water)Duration:  Con centration , up to 8 h oursYou take con trol of the weath er within 5 m iles of youfor the duration. You m ust be ou tdoors to cast this spell.M ovin g to a pla ce wh ere you don t have a clear path tothe sky en ds the spell early.Wh en you cast the spell, you ch a n ge the currentweath er con dition s, wh ich are determ in ed by the DMba sed on the clim ate and sea son . You ca n ch a n geprecipitation, tem perature, and wind. It takes 1d4 x 10m inutes for the n ew con dition s to take effect. On ce theydo so, you ca n ch a n ge the con dition s again. Wh en thespell ends, the weath er gradually returns to norm al.Wh en you ch a n ge the weath er con dition s, find acurren t con dition on the followin g tables and ch a n ge itsstage by one, up or down. W h en ch a n gin g the win d, youca n ch a n ge its direction .
HoldMonster;5;enchantment;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;a sm all, straight piece of iron;1 minutes;-;C h oose a creatu re that you can see within range. TheC h oose a creatu re that you can see within range. Thetarget m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row or bepa ra lyzed for the duration. Th is spell has n o effect onundead. At the en d of ea ch of its turns, the target canm ake an oth er W isdom saving throw. On a su ccess, thespell en ds on the target.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can target oneadditional crea tu re for ea ch slot level above 5th. Th ecrea tu res m ust be with in 30 feet of ea ch oth er wh enyou target them .
MordenkainensPrivateSanctum;4;abjuration;-;10 minutes;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a thin sh eet of lead, a pieceof opa qu e glass, a wad of cotton or cloth, andpow dered chrysolite;24 hours;-;You m ake an area within range m a gica lly secu re. Th eYou m ake an area within range m a gica lly secu re. Th earea is a cu be that ca n be as sm all as 5 feet to as largeas 100 feet on ea ch side. Th e spell lasts for the durationor until you u se an action to dism iss it.W h en you cast the spell, you decide what sort ofsecu rity the spell provides, ch oosin g any or all of thefollowin g properties:• Sou n d can t pa ss th rough the ba rrier at the edge ofthe w a rded area.• Th e barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy,preventing vision (in cluding darkvision) th rough it.• Sen sors created by divination spells ca n t appearinside the protected area or pa ss th rough the barrierat its perim eter.• Creatures in the area ca n t be targeted by divinationspells.• N othin g ca n teleport into or out of the wa rded area.• P lanar travel is block ed within the wa rded area.Casting this spell on the sa m e spot every day for ayear m a kes this effect perm anent.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 5th level or higher, you can in crea se the sizeof the cu be by 100 feet for each slot level beyon d 4th.Th u s you cou ld protect a cu be that can be up to 200 feeton on e side by u sin g a spell slot of 5th level.
Enlarge/Reduce;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of pow der ed iron;1 minutes;-;You ca u se a creatu re or an object you ca n see withinYou ca u se a creatu re or an object you ca n see withinran ge to grow larger or sm aller for the duration. Ch ooseeither a creatu re or an object that is neither w ornn or carried. If the target is unwilling, it ca n m ake aConstitution saving throw. On a su ccess, the spellh as n o effect.If the target is a creature, everything it is w ea rin g andca rryin g ch a n ges size with it. An y item dropped by anaffected creatu re retu rn s to n orm al size at on ce.Enlarge. Th e targets size dou bles in all dim en sion s,and its weigh t is m ultiplied by eight. Th is growthin cr ea ses its size by on e categoryfrom Mediu m toLarge, for exam ple. If there isn t en ou gh r oom for thetarget to dou ble its size, the crea tu re or object attainsthe m a xim u m possible size in the spa ce available.Until the spell ends, the target also has advantage onStren gth ch eck s and Stren gth saving th rows. Th etargets w ea pon s a lso grow to m atch its n ew size. Wh ileth ese wea pon s are enlarged, the targets attacks withthem deal 1d4 extra dam age.Reduce. Th e targets size is halved in all dim en sion s,and its weigh t is r edu ced to on e-eigh th of n orm al. Th isredu ction decrea ses its size by on e categoryfromMediu m to Sm all, for exam ple. Until the spell ends,the target also has disadvantage on Stren gth ch eck sand Stren gth saving th rows. Th e targets wea pon s alsosh rin k to m atch its n ew size. W h ile th ese w ea pon s areredu ced, the targets attacks with th em deal 1d4 lessda m age (this ca n t redu ce the da m age below 1).
IceStorm;4;evocation;-;1 action;-;300 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of dust and a fewdrops of water;instant;-;A hail of rock-h ard ice pou n ds to the grou n d in aA hail of rock-h ard ice pou n ds to the grou n d in a20-foot-radiu s, 40-foot-h igh cylinder cen tered on apoin t within range. E a ch creatu re in the cylinder m ustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. A creatu re takes 2d8blu dgeon in g da m age and 4d6 cold da m age on a failedsave, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.H ailston es turn the storm s area of effect into difficultterrain until the en d of you r next turn.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 5th level or higher, the blu dgeon in g da m agein crea ses by 1d8 for ea ch slot level above 4th.
Augury;2;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;specia lly m a rked sticks, bon es,or sim ilar token s w orth at least 25 gp;instant;-;By castin g gem -inlaid sticks, rollin g dragon bon es,By castin g gem -inlaid sticks, rollin g dragon bon es,laying out ornate cards, or em ployin g som e oth erdivin in g tool, you receive an om en from an oth erworldlyentity about the resu lts of a specific cou r se of action thatyou plan to take with in the next 30 m inutes. Th e DMch ooses from the followin g possible om en s:•  Weal, for good results•  Woe, for bad results•  Weal and w oe, for both good and ba d results•  Nothing, for resu lts that arent especia lly good or badTh e spell d oesn t take into a ccou n t any possiblecircu m sta n ces that m ight ch a n ge the ou tcom e, suchas the castin g of additional spells or the loss or gainof a com pa n ion .If you cast the spell two or m ore tim es beforecom pletin g you r next lon g rest, th ere is a cum ulative 25percen t ch a n ce for each ca stin g after the first that youget a ran dom reading. Th e DM m a kes this roll in secret.
Regenerate;7;transmutation;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;a prayer wh eel and h oly water;1 hour;-;You tou ch a creatu re and stim ulate its natural healingYou tou ch a creatu re and stim ulate its natural healingability. Th e target rega in s 4d8 + 15 hit points. F or theduration of the spell, the target rega in s 1 hit poin t at thestart of ea ch of its turns (10 hit poin ts ea ch minute).Th e targets severed bod y m em bers (fingers, legs,tails, and so on), if any, are restored after 2 m inutes.If you have the severed part and h old it to the stum p,the spell in stan taneou sly ca u ses the lim b to knitto the stum p.
PlantGrowth;3;transmutation;-;1 action ;ct comment;150 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;Th is spell ch a n n els vitality into plants within a specificTh is spell ch a n n els vitality into plants within a specificarea. Th ere are two possible u ses for the spell, grantingeither im m ediate or long-term benefits.If you cast this spell u sin g 1 action, ch oose a pointwith in range. All n orm a l plants in a 100-foot radiuscen tered on that poin t becom e thick and overgrown . Acrea tu re m ovin g th rough the area m ust spen d 4 feet ofm ovem en t for every 1 foot it m oves.You can exclu de on e or m ore areas of any size withinthe spells area from bein g affected.If you cast this spell over 8 h ours, you en rich theland. All plants in a half-m ile radius cen tered on a pointwithin ran ge becom e en rich ed for 1 year. Th e plantsyield twice the n orm al am ount of food w h en harvested.
Guidance;0;Divination;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You tou ch on e w illin g creatu re. On ce before the spellYou tou ch on e w illin g creatu re. On ce before the spellends, the target ca n roll a d4 and add the n u m ber rolledto on e ability ch eck of its ch oice. It ca n roll the die beforeor after m a kin g the ability ch eck. Th e spell then ends.
DimensionDoor;4;conjuration;-;1 action;-;500 feet;V;-;instant;-;You teleport you rself from you r current location to anyYou teleport you rself from you r current location to anyoth er spot within range. You arrive at exactly the spotdesired. It can be a pla ce you ca n see, on e you canvisu alize, or on e you ca n descr ibe by stating distanceand direction , su ch as “200 feet straight down wa rd” or“upward to the northwest at a 45-degree angle, 300 feet.”You can brin g alon g objects as lon g as their weigh td oesn t exceed what you ca n carry. You ca n a lso bringon e willin g crea tu re of your size or sm aller w h o isca rryin g gear up to its carryin g capacity. Th e creaturem ust be within 5 feet of you wh en you cast this spell.If you w ou ld arrive in a pla ce already occu pied by anobject or a creatu re, you and any crea tu re traveling withyou each take 4d6 for ce dam age, and the spell fails toteleport you.
LocateCreature;4;divination;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a bit of fur from a bloodh ou n d;1 hour;-;D escribe or n am e a creatu re that is fam iliar to you. YouD escribe or n am e a creatu re that is fam iliar to you. Yousen se the direction to the crea tu res location, as lon g asthat creatu re is with in 1,000 feet of you. If the creatu reis m oving, you kn ow the direction of its m ovem ent.Th e spell can locate a specific creatu re kn own toyou, or the n earest crea tu re of a specific kind (such asa hum an or a u nicorn), so lon g as you have seen su ch acrea tu re up closewithin 30 feetat least on ce. If thecrea tu re you descr ibed or n am ed is in a different form ,su ch as bein g u nder the effects of a  polym orph spell,this spell d oesn t locate the creature.Th is spell ca n t locate a creatu re if run ning water atleast 10 feet w ide block s a direct path between you andthe creature.
RemoveCurse;3;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;At you r touch, all cu r ses affecting on e creatu re orAt you r touch, all cu r ses affecting on e creatu re orobject end. If the object is a cu r sed m a gic item, its cu rserem ains, but the spell brea ks its ow n er s attunem ent tothe object so it ca n be rem oved or disca rded.
CallLightning;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];A storm clou d appears in the sh ape of a cylinder thatA storm clou d appears in the sh ape of a cylinder thatis 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius, cen tered on a pointyou ca n see 100 feet directly above you. Th e spell failsif you ca n t see a poin t in the air wh ere the storm clou dcou ld appear (for exam ple, if you are in a r oom that ca n taccom m oda te the cloud).W h en you cast the spell, ch oose a poin t you ca n seewithin range. A bolt of lightning flashes down from theclou d to that point. E a ch creatu re within 5 feet of thatpoin t m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. A creatu retakes 3d10 lightning da m age on a failed save, or h alfas m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l on e. On ea ch of yourturns until the spell ends, you ca n u se you r action to calldown lightning in th is way again, targeting the sa m epoint or a different one.If you are ou tdoors in storm y con dition s wh en youcast this spell, the spell gives you con trol over theexisting storm instead of creatin g a n ew one. Undersu ch con dition s, the spells da m age in crea ses by 1d10.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th or h igh er level, the da m age in crea ses by1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.
TruePolymorph;9;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a drop of m ercury, a dollop ofgum arabic, and a w isp of sm oke;1 hour;-;C h oose on e creatu re or n on m a gica l object that youC h oose on e creatu re or n on m a gica l object that youcan see within range. You tran sform the crea tu re intoa different creature, the creatu re into an object, or theobject into a creatu re (the object m ust be neither wornn or ca rried by another creature). Th e tran sform ationlasts for the duration, or until the target drops to 0 hitpoin ts or dies. If you con cen tra te on this spell for the fullduration, the tran sform ation becom es perm anent.Sh a pech a n gers arent affected by this spell. Anu nwillin g creatu re ca n m ake a W isdom saving throw,and if it su cceeds, it isnt affected by this spell.Creature into Creature. If you turn a crea tu re intoanother kind of creatu re, the n ew form ca n be any kindyou ch oose w h ose ch a llen ge rating is equ al to or lessthan the targets (or its level, if the target d oesn t have ach a llen ge rating). Th e targets gam e statistics, in cludingm ental ability scor es, are repla ced by the statistics ofthe n ew form . It retains its alignm ent and personality.Th e target a ssu m es the hit poin ts of its n ew form ,and wh en it reverts to its n orm al form , the creatureretu rn s to the n u m ber of hit poin ts it had before ittran sform ed. If it reverts as a result of droppin g to0 hit points, any excess da m age ca rries over to itsn orm al form . As lon g as the excess da m age doesn tredu ce the crea tu res n orm al form to 0 hit points, it isn tkn ock ed u n con sciou s.Th e creatu re is lim ited in the a ction s it ca n perform bythe nature of its n ew form , and it ca n t speak, cast spells,or take any oth er action that requ ires h an ds or speechu n less its n ew form is capa ble of su ch actions.Th e targets gear m elds into the n ew form . Th ecreatu re ca n t activate, use, wield, or oth erwise benefitfrom any of its equipm ent.Object into Creature. You ca n turn an object intoany kind of creatu re, as lon g as the crea tu res sizeis n o larger than the objects size and the crea tu resch a llen ge rating is 9 or lower. Th e creatu re is friendly toyou and you r com pa n ion s. It acts on each of you r turns.You decide what action it takes and h ow it m oves. Th eDM h as the crea tu res statistics and resolves all of itsaction s and m ovem ent.If the spell becom es perm anent, you no lon ger con trolthe creature. It m ight rem ain friendly to you, depen din gon h ow you have treated it.Creature into Object. If you turn a crea tu re into anobject, it tran sform s alon g with whatever it is wearin gand ca rryin g into that form . Th e crea tu res statisticsbecom e th ose of the object, and the creatu re h as nom em ory of tim e spent in this form , after the spell en dsand it retu rn s to its n orm al form .
ElementalWeapon;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A n on m a gica l w ea pon you tou ch becom es a m a gicA n on m a gica l w ea pon you tou ch becom es a m a gicwea pon . Ch oose on e of the followin g da m age types:acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder. F or the duration,the wea pon has a +1 bon u s to attack rolls and dea ls anextra 1d4 da m age of the ch osen type w h en it hits.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 5th or 6th level, the bon u s to attack rollsin crea ses to +2 and the extra da m age in crea ses to2d4. W h en you u se a spell slot of 7th level or higher,the bon u s in crea ses to +3 and the extra dam agein crea ses to 3d4.
TransportviaPlants;6;conjuration;-;1 action;-;10 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;Th is spell crea tes a m a gica l link between a Large orTh is spell crea tes a m a gica l link between a Large orlarger in anim ate plant within ran ge and an oth er plant,at any distance, on the sa m e plane of existen ce. Youm ust have seen or tou ch ed the destin ation plant at leaston ce before. F or the duration, any creatu re ca n step intothe target plant and exit from the destin ation plant byu sin g 5 feet of m ovem ent.
ModifyMemory;5;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attem pt to resh a pe an oth er crea tu res m em ories.You attem pt to resh a pe an oth er crea tu res m em ories.One crea tu re that you ca n see m ust m a ke a W isdomsaving throw. If you are fighting the creatu re, it hasadvantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, thetarget becom es ch a rm ed by you for the duration. Thech a rm ed target is in capacitated and u naware of itssu rrou n din gs, th ou gh it ca n still h ear you. If it takes anyda m age or is targeted by an oth er spell, this spell ends,and n on e of the targets m em ories are m odified.W h ile this ch a rm lasts, you ca n affect the ta rgetsm em ory of an event that it experien ced within the last24 h ou rs and that lasted n o m ore than 10 m inutes. Youca n perm anen tly elim inate all m em ory of the event,a llow the target to reca ll the event with perfect clarityand exactin g detail, ch a n ge its m em ory of the details ofthe event, or crea te a m em ory of som e oth er event.You m ust spea k to the target to descr ibe h owits m em ories are affected, and it m ust be able tounderstan d your language for the m odified m em ories totake root. Its m in d fills in any gaps in the details of yourdescription. If the spell en ds before you have fin ish eddescribin g the m odified m em ories, the crea tu resm em ory isnt altered. Oth erwise, the m odified m em oriestake h old w h en the spell ends.A m odified m em ory d oesn t n ecessa rily affect h ow acreatu re beh aves, particularly if the m em ory contradictsthe crea tu res natural in clinations, alignm ent, or beliefs.An illogica l m odified m em ory, su ch as im planting am em ory of h ow m u ch the crea tu re en joyed dou sin gitself in acid, is dism issed, perhaps as a bad dream . Th eDM m ight deem a m odified m em ory too n on sen sica l toaffect a crea tu re in a sign ifican t m anner.A  rem ove curse or  greater restoration spell cast on thetarget restores the crea tu res true m em ory.A t H igher L evels. If you cast this spell u sin g a spellslot of 6th level or higher, you can alter the ta rgetsm em ories of an event that took pla ce up to 7 days ago(6th level), 30 days ago (7th level), 1 year ago (8th level),or any tim e in the crea tu res past (9th level).
LesserRestoration;2;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;You tou ch a crea tu re and ca n end either on e disea se orYou tou ch a crea tu re and ca n end either on e disea se oron e con dition afflicting it. Th e con dition ca n be blinded,dea fen ed, paralyzed, or poison ed.
Light;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,M;a firefly or ph osph orescen t m oss;1 hour;-;You tou ch on e object that is n o larger than 10 feet in anyYou tou ch on e object that is n o larger than 10 feet in anydim en sion . Until the spell ends, the object sh eds brightlight in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional20 feet. Th e light ca n be colored as you like. Com pletelycoverin g the object with som eth in g opa qu e block s thelight. Th e spell en ds if you cast it again or dism iss itas an action.If you target an object h eld or w orn by a h ostilecreatu re, that crea tu re m ust su cceed on a Dexteritysaving th row to avoid the spell.
MordenkainensSword;7;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a m iniature platinum sword witha grip and pom m el of copper and zinc, worth 250 gp;1 minutes;-;You create a sword-sh a ped plane of force that hoversYou create a sword-sh a ped plane of force that hoverswithin range. It lasts for the duration.W h en the sword appears, you m ake a m elee spellattack against a target of you r ch oice within 5 feet of thesword. On a hit. the target takes 3d10 for ce dam age.decide the visu al appea ra n ce of th ese servan ts and theirattire. Th ey are com pletely obedien t to you r orders.E a ch servant can perform any task a n orm al hum anservant cou ld perform , but they ca n t attack or takeany action that wou ld directly h arm an oth er creature.Th us the servan ts ca n fetch things, clean, m end, foldcloth es, light fires, serve food, pou r win e, and so on.Th e servants ca n go an ywh ere in the m a n sion butca n t leave it. F u rn ishin gs and oth er objects createdby this spell dissipate into sm oke if rem oved from them ansion . W h en the spell ends, any crea tu res insidethe extradim en sion al spa ce are expelled into the openspa ces n earest to the entrance.Until the spell ends, you ca n u se a bon u s action on eachof you r turns to m ove the sword up to 20 feet to a spotyou can see and repeat this attack against the sa m etarget or a different one.
ConjureWoodlandBeings;4;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;one holly berry percreatu re su m m on ed;1 hour;-;You su m m on fey crea tu res that appear in u n occu piedYou su m m on fey crea tu res that appear in u n occu piedspa ces that you can see within range. C h oose on e of thefollowin g option s for what appears:• One fey crea tu re of ch a llen ge rating 2 or lower• Two fey crea tu res of ch a llen ge rating 1 or lower• F our fey crea tu res of ch a llen ge rating 1/2 or lower• Eight fey crea tu res of challen ge rating 1/4 or lowerA su m m on ed creatu re disa ppea rs wh en it drops to 0 hitpoin ts or wh en the spell ends.The su m m on ed crea tu res are friendly to you and yourcom pa n ion s. Roll initiative for the su m m on ed creatu resas a group, which have their own turns. Th ey obey anyverbal com m a n ds that you issu e to th em (no actionrequ ired by you). If you dont issu e any com m a n ds tothem , they defen d th em selves from h ostile creatu res,but oth erwise take n o actions.Th e DM has the crea tu res statistics.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u singcertain higher level spell slots, you ch oose on e of thesu m m on in g option s above, and m ore crea tu res appear:tw ice as m any with a 6th level slot and th ree tim es asm any with an 8th level slot.
WordofRecall;6;conjuration;-;1 action;-;5 feet;V;-;instant;-;You and up to five willin g crea tu res within 5 feet of youYou and up to five willin g crea tu res within 5 feet of youinstantly teleport to a previously design ated sanctuary.You and any crea tu res that teleport with you appear inthe n earest u n occu pied spa ce to the spot you design atedwh en you prepared your sa n ctu ary (see below). If youcast this spell without first preparin g a sanctuary, thespell has n o effect.You m ust design ate a sa n ctu ary by castin g this spellwithin a location, su ch as a tem ple, dedica ted to orstron gly linked to you r deity. If you attem pt to cast thespell in this m a n n er in an area that isn t dedica ted toyou r deity, the spell h as n o effect.
Sending;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;Unlimited;V,S,M;a sh ort piece of fine copper wire;1 round;-;You sen d a sh ort m essa ge of twenty-five w ords orYou sen d a sh ort m essa ge of twenty-five w ords orless to a creatu re with wh ich you are fam iliar. Thecreatu re h ears the m essa ge in its m ind, r ecogn izesyou as the sen der if it k n ows you, and ca n a n swer in alike m a n n er im m ediately. Th e spell en ables crea tu reswith Intelligen ce scor es of at least 1 to understan d them ea n in g of your m essa ge.You can sen d the m essa ge a cr oss any dista n ce andeven to oth er planes of existence, but if the target is on adifferent plane than you, there is a 5 percen t ch a n ce thatthe m essa ge d oesn t arrive.
FogCloud;1;conjuration;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You create a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere of fog cen tered on aYou create a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere of fog cen tered on apoin t within range. Th e sph ere sprea ds arou nd corn ers,and its area is heavily obscu red. It lasts for the durationor until a w in d of m odera te or greater speed (at least 10m iles per hour) disper ses it.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the radius of the fogin crea ses by 20 feet for ea ch slot level above 1st.
SwiftQuiver;5;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;touch;V,S,M;a quiver con ta in in g at least on epiece of am m unition;1 minutes;-;You transmute you r quiver so it produ ces an en dlessYou transmute you r quiver so it produ ces an en dlesssupply of n on m a gica l am m unition, wh ich seem s to leapinto you r hand wh en you reach for it.On each of you r turns until the spell ends, you can u sea bon u s action to m ake two attacks with a wea pon thatu ses am m u nition from the quiver. E a ch tim e you m akesu ch a ran ged attack, you r quiver m a gica lly r epla cesthe piece of am m u nition you u sed with a sim ilar pieceof n on m a gica l am m unition. Any pieces of am m unitioncreated by this spell disintegrate wh en the spell ends. Ifthe quiver lea ves your possession , the spell ends.
ConjureCelestial;7;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You su m m on a celestial of ch a llen ge rating 4 or lower,You su m m on a celestial of ch a llen ge rating 4 or lower,wh ich appears in an u n occu pied spa ce that you can seewithin range. Th e celestial disappea rs wh en it drops to0 hit poin ts or wh en the spell ends.Th e celestial is friendly to you and your com pa n ion sfor the duration. Roll initiative for the celestial, wh ichhas its own turns. It obeys any verbal com m a n ds thatyou issu e to it (no action requ ired by you), as lon g asthey don t violate its alignm ent. If you don t issu e anycom m a n ds to the celestial, it defen ds itself from h ostilecrea tu res but oth erwise takes n o actions.Th e DM has the celestia ls statistics.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g a9th level spell slot, you su m m on a celestial of challen gerating 5 or lower.
WardingBond;2;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a pair of platinum rin gs worth atleast 50 gp each , w h ich you and the target m ust wea rfor the duration;1 hour;-;Th is spell wa rds a w illin g creatu re you tou ch andTh is spell wa rds a w illin g creatu re you tou ch andcrea tes a m ystic con n ection between you and the targetuntil the spell ends. W h ile the target is within 60 feet ofyou, it gain s a +1 bon u s to AC an d saving th rows, andit has resistan ce to all dam age. Also, ea ch tim e it takesda m age, you take the sa m e am ount of dam age.Th e spell en ds if you drop to 0 hit poin ts or if youand the target becom e separated by m ore than 60 feet.It a lso en ds if the spell is cast again on either of thecon n ected creatu res. You can also dism iss the spellas an action.
FindFamiliar;1;conjuration;True;1 hour;-;10 feet;V,S,M;10 gp worth of ch a rcoal,in cen se, and h erbs that m ust be con su m ed by fire in abrass brazier;instant;-;You gain the ser vice of a fam iliar, a spirit that takes anYou gain the ser vice of a fam iliar, a spirit that takes anan im al form you ch oose: bat, cat, crab, frog (toad), hawk,lizard, octopu s, owl, poison ou s snake, fish (quipper),rat, raven, sea h orse, spider, or weasel. Appea rin g inan u n occu pied spa ce within range, the fam iliar has thestatistics of the ch osen form , th ou gh it is a celestial, fey,or fiend (you r ch oice) in stead of a beast.Your fam iliar acts in depen den tly of you, but it alwaysobeys you r com m a n ds. In com ba t, it rolls its owninitiative and acts on its own turn. A fam iliar ca n tattack, but it can take oth er action s as norm al.W h en the fam iliar dr ops to 0 hit poin ts, it disappears,leavin g beh in d n o ph ysical form . It reappea rs after youcast this spell againW h ile your fam iliar is within 100 feet of you, youcan com m u n ica te with it telepathically. Additionally,as an action, you ca n see th rou gh your fa m ilia rs eyesand h ear what it hears until the start of your next turn,gain in g the benefits of any specia l sen ses that thefam iliar has. Du rin g this tim e, you are dea f and blindwith regard to you r own sen ses.As an action, you can tem porarily dism iss yourfam iliar. It disa ppea rs into a pocket dim en sion wh ere itawaits your su m m on s. Alternatively, you can dism iss itforever. As an action w h ile it is tem porarily dism issed,you can ca u se it to rea ppea r in any u n occu pied spa cewithin 30 feet of you.You ca n t have m ore than on e fam iliar at a tim e. If youcast this spell while you already have a fam iliar, youinstead ca u se it to adopt a n ew form . C h oose on e of theform s from the above list. Your fam iliar tran sform s intothe ch osen creature.Finally, wh en you cast a spell with a ran ge of touch,you r fam iliar can deliver the spell as if it had cast thespell. Your fam iliar m ust be within 100 feet of you, andit m ust u se its reaction to deliver the spell wh en you castit. If the spell requ ires an attack roll, you u se you r attackm odifier for the roll.
Harm;6;necromancy;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You u n lea sh a virulent disea se on a creatu re thatYou u n lea sh a virulent disea se on a creatu re thatyou ca n see within range. Th e target m ust m ake aConstitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes14d6 n ecrotic dam age, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on asu ccessfu l save. Th e da m age ca n t redu ce the targetshit poin ts below 1. If the target fails the saving throw,its hit point m a xim u m is redu ced for 1 h ou r by anam ount equ al to the n ecrotic da m age it took. An y effectthat rem oves a disea se allows a crea tu res hit pointm a xim u m to return to n orm al before that tim e pa sses.
FireBolt;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You hurl a m ote of fire at a creatu re or object withinYou hurl a m ote of fire at a creatu re or object withinrange. Make a ran ged spell attack against thetarget. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 fire dam age. Aflam m able object hit by this spell ignites if it isnt bein gworn or carried.Th is spells da m age in cr ea ses by 1d10 wh en you reach5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10), and 17th level (4d10).
FalseLife;1;necromancy;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a sm all am ount of a lcoh ol ordistilled spirits;1 hour;-;Bolsterin g you r self with a n ecrom a n tic fa csim ile of life,Bolsterin g you r self with a n ecrom a n tic fa csim ile of life,you gain 1d4 + 4 tem pora ry hit poin ts for the duration.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, you gain 5 additionaltem pora ry hit poin ts for ea ch slot level above 1st.
CreateUndead;6;necromancy;-;1 minute;-;10 feet;V,S,M;one clay pot filled with grave dirt,on e clay pot filled with brackish water, and on e 150 gpblack on yx stone for each corpse;instant;-;You ca n cast this spell on ly at night. C h oose up to threeYou ca n cast this spell on ly at night. C h oose up to threecor p ses of M ediu m or Sm a ll h u m an oids within range.E a ch cor p se becom es a ghou l u nder you r control. (Th eDM has gam e statistics for th ese creatures.)As a bon u s action on ea ch of your turns, you canm entally com m a n d any creatu re you anim ated withthis spell if the creatu re is within 120 feet of you (if youcon trol m ultiple creatu res, you can com m a n d any or allof th em at the sa m e tim e, issu in g the sa m e com m a n d toea ch one). You decide what action the creatu re w ill takeand w h ere it will m ove du rin g its next turn, or you canissu e a general com m a n d, su ch as to guard a particularch a m ber or corridor. If you issu e n o com m a n ds, thecreatu re on ly defen ds itself against h ostile creatu res.On ce given an order, the crea tu re con tin u es to follow ituntil its task is com plete.Th e crea tu re is u nder you r con trol for 24 h ours,after w h ich it stops obeyin g any com m a n d you havegiven it. To m aintain con trol of the crea tu re for another24 h ours, you m ust cast this spell on the creatu rebefore the current 24-h ou r period ends. Th is u seof the spell rea sserts you r con trol over up to threecrea tu res you have anim ated with this spell, rather thananim ating n ew on es.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g a7th level spell slot, you ca n anim ate or rea ssert con trolover fou r gh ou ls. W h en you cast this spell u sin g an8th level spell slot, you ca n anim ate or rea ssert con trolover five gh ou ls or two ghasts or wigh ts. Wh en you castthis spell u sin g a 9th level spell slot, you can anim ate orrea ssert con trol over six ghou ls, th ree ghasts or wights,or two m u m m ies.
SpeakwithPlants;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;You im bue plants within 30 feet of you with lim itedYou im bue plants within 30 feet of you with lim itedsen tien ce and anim ation, giving them the abilityto com m u n ica te with you and follow you r sim plecom m a n ds. You can qu estion plants about events in thespells area within the past day, gain in g in form ationabout crea tu res that have pa ssed, weather, and othercircu m sta n ces.You can a lso turn difficult terrain ca u sed by plantgrowth (such as thickets and u ndergrowth ) into ordin aryterrain that lasts for the duration. Or you ca n turnordin ary terrain wh ere plants are presen t into difficultterrain that lasts for the duration, cau sin g vin es andbra n ch es to hinder pu rsuers, for exam ple.P lants m ight be able to perform oth er tasks on yourbehalf, at the DM s discretion . Th e spell d oesn t enableplants to u proot th em selves and m ove about, but theyca n freely m ove bran ch es, tendrils, and stalks.If a plant creatu re is in the area, you ca n com m u n ica tewith it as if you sh ared a com m on language, but yougain n o m a gica l ability to in flu ence it.Th is spell ca n ca u se the plants created by the  entanglespell to release a restrain ed creature.
Temperature;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;Stage ConditionStage Condition1 Unbearable heat2 Hot3 Warm4 Cool5 Cold6 Arctic cold
Thaumaturgy;0;Transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;You m a n ifest a m in or wonder, a sign of supernaturalYou m a n ifest a m in or wonder, a sign of supernaturalpower, with in range. You create on e of the followin gm a gica l effects within range:• Your voice boom s up to th ree tim es as lou d as n orm alfor 1 minute.• You ca u se flam es to flicker, brighten, dim , or ch a n gecolor for 1 minute.• You ca u se h a rm less trem ors in the grou n d for 1minute.• You create an in stan taneou s sou n d that origin atesfrom a poin t of your ch oice within range, su ch as arum ble of thunder, the cry of a raven, or om in ou swh ispers.• You in stan taneou sly ca u se an u n locked door or w in ­dow to fly open or slam shut.• You alter the a ppearan ce of you r eyes for 1 minute.If you cast this spell m ultiple tim es, you ca n have up toth ree of its 1-minute effects active at a tim e, and you candism iss su ch an effect as an action.
Hex;1;enchantment;-;1 bonus action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;the petrified eye of a newt;1 hour;-;You pla ce a cu rse on a crea tu re that you ca n see withinYou pla ce a cu rse on a crea tu re that you ca n see withinrange. Until the spell ends, you dea l an extra 1d6n ecrotic da m age to the target wh en ever you hit it withan attack. Also, ch oose on e ability wh en you cast thespell. Th e target has disadvantage on ability ch eck sm a de with the ch osen ability.If the target dr ops to 0 hit poin ts before this spellen ds, you ca n u se a bon u s action on a su bsequ en t turnof you rs to cu r se a n ew creature.A  rem ove curse cast on the target en ds this spell early.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you ca n m aintain yourcon cen tra tion on the spell for up to 8 h ours. W h en youu se a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can m aintainyou r con cen tra tion on the spell for up to 24 hours.
ConjureMinorElementals;4;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You su m m on elem entals that appear in u n occu piedYou su m m on elem entals that appear in u n occu piedspa ces that you can see with in range. You ch oose on ethe followin g option s for what appears:• One elem ental of ch a llen ge rating 2 or lower• Two elem entals of ch a llen ge rating 1 or lower• F our elem entals of ch a llen ge rating 1/2 or lower• Eight elem entals of ch a llen ge rating 1/4 or lower.An elem ental su m m on ed by this spell disappea rs whenit drops to 0 hit poin ts or wh en the spell ends.Th e su m m on ed crea tu res are friendly to you and yourcom pa n ion s. Roll initiative for the su m m on ed creatu resas a group, wh ich has its own turns. Th ey obey anyverbal com m a n ds that you issu e to them (no actionrequ ired by you). If you don t issu e any com m a n ds tothem , they defen d th em selves from h ostile creatu res,but oth erwise take n o actions.Th e DM h as the crea tu res statistics.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singcertain h igher level spell slots, you ch oose on e of thesu m m on in g option s above, and m ore crea tu res appear:tw ice as m any with a 6th level slot and th ree tim es asm any with an 8th level slot.
CloudofDaggers;2;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a sliver of glass;1 minutes;-;You fill the air with spin n in g da ggers in a cu be 5 feet onYou fill the air with spin n in g da ggers in a cu be 5 feet oneach side, cen tered on a poin t you ch oose within range.A creatu re takes 4d4 slash in g da m age wh en it entersthe spells area for the first tim e on a turn or startsits turn there.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by2d4 for ea ch slot level above 2nd.
GreaterInvisibility;4;illusion;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You or a crea tu re you tou ch becom es invisible until theYou or a crea tu re you tou ch becom es invisible until thespell ends. An yth ing the target is w ea rin g or carryin g isinvisible as lon g as it is on the targets person .
GaseousForm;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a bit of gauze and aw isp of sm oke;1 hour;-;You tran sform a willin g creatu re you touch, alon g withYou tran sform a willin g creatu re you touch, alon g witheveryth in g its wea rin g and carryin g, into a m isty clou dfor the duration. Th e spell ends if the creatu re dr ops to0 hit points. An in cor por ea l crea tu re isnt affected.W h ile in this form , the targets on ly m eth od ofm ovem en t is a flying speed of 10 feet. Th e target canenter and occu py the spa ce of an oth er creatu re. Thetarget has resistan ce to n on m a gica l dam age, and it hasadvantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitutionsaving th rows. Th e target can pa ss th rough sm all holes,n a rrow open in gs, and even m ere cra cks, th ou gh it treatsliquids as th ou gh they were solid su rfa ces. Th e targetcan t fall and rem ain s h overin g in the air even whenstun n ed or oth erwise incapacitated.W h ile in the form of a m isty clou d, the target ca n t talkor m anipulate objects, and any objects it w a s carryin g orh oldin g ca n t be dropped, used, or oth erwise interactedwith. Th e target ca n t attack or cast spells.
Weird;9;illusion;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to on e m inute'];Dra win g on the deepest fears of a grou p of creatu res,Dra win g on the deepest fears of a grou p of creatu res,you create illu sory crea tu res in their m inds, visibleon ly to them . E a ch crea tu re in a 30-foot-radiu ssph ere cen tered on a poin t of you r ch oice withinran ge m ust m ake a W isdom saving throw. On a failedsave, a crea tu re becom es frigh ten ed for the duration.Th e illusion ca lls on the crea tu res deepest fears,m a n ifestin g its worst n igh tm ares as an im placablethreat. At the start of ea ch of the frigh ten ed crea tu resturns, it m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row ortake 4 d10 psych ic dam age. On a su ccessfu l save, thespell en ds for that creature.
HeatMetal;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a piece of iron and a flam e;1 minutes;-;C h oose a m anu factu red m etal object, su ch as a m etalC h oose a m anu factu red m etal object, su ch as a m etalwea pon or a suit of heavy or m ediu m m etal arm or, thatyou ca n see within range. You ca u se the object to glowred-hot. An y crea tu re in ph ysical con tact with the objecttakes 2d8 fire da m age wh en you cast the spell. Until thespell ends, you can u se a bon u s action on each of yoursu bsequ en t turns to ca u se this da m age again.If a crea tu re is h oldin g or w ea rin g the object andtakes the da m age from it, the crea tu re m ust su cceed ona Constitution saving th row or drop the object if it can. Ifit d oesn t drop the object, it has disadvantage on attackrolls and ability ch eck s until the start of you r next turn.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 2nd.
Shatter;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a chip of m ica;instant;-;A su dden lou d rin gin g n oise, painfu lly intense, eruptsA su dden lou d rin gin g n oise, painfu lly intense, eruptsfrom a poin t of you r ch oice within range. E a ch creatu rein a 10-foot-radius sph ere cen tered on that poin t mustm ake a Constitution saving throw. A creatu re takes3d8 thunder da m a ge on a failed save, or h a lf as m u chda m age on a su ccessfu l one. A creatu re m a de ofin organ ic m aterial su ch as stone, crystal, or m etal hasdisadvantage on this saving throw.A n on m a gica l object that isn t bein g w orn or carriedalso takes the da m age if its in the spells area.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
ProtectionfromPoison;2;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 round;-;You tou ch a creatu re. If it is poison ed, you neutralize theYou tou ch a creatu re. If it is poison ed, you neutralize thepoison . If m ore than on e poison afflicts the target, youneutralize on e poison that you k n ow is present, or youneutralize on e at ran dom .F or the duration, the target has advantage on savingth rows against bein g poison ed, and it h as resista n ce topoison dam age.
DivineWord;7;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V;-;instant;-;You utter a divine word, im bu ed with the power thatYou utter a divine word, im bu ed with the power thatsh aped the world at the dawn of creation. C h oose anyn u m ber of crea tu res you ca n see within range. E achcreature that can h ear you m ust m ake a Ch arism asaving throw. On a failed save, a creatu re su ffers aneffect ba sed on its current hit points:• 50 hit points or fewer: dea fen ed for 1 m inute• 40 hit points or fewer: dea fen ed and blin ded for 10m inutes• 30 hit poin ts or fewer: blinded, deafened, and stun n edfor 1 h our• 20 hit poin ts or fewer: killed instantlyRega rdless of its current hit points, a celestial, anelem ental, a fey, or a fiend that fails its save is forcedba ck to its plane of origin (if it isn t there already) andca n t return to your curren t plane for 24 h ou rs by anym ea n s sh ort of a  wish spell.
Silence;2;illusion;True;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];F or the duration, n o sou n d ca n be crea ted within orF or the duration, n o sou n d ca n be crea ted within orpa ss th rough a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere centered on apoin t you ch oose within range. An y crea tu re or objectentirely in side the sph ere is im m u n e to thunder dam age,and crea tu res are dea fen ed wh ile entirely in side it.Casting a spell that in clu des a verbal com pon en t isim possible there.
MassHeal;9;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A flood of h ealin g en ergy flows from you into injuredA flood of h ealin g en ergy flows from you into injuredcrea tu res arou nd you. You restore up to 700 hit points,divided as you ch oose am on g any n u m ber of crea tu resthat you ca n see with in range. Creatures h ealed bythis spell are also cu red of all disea ses and any effectm a kin g them blin ded or dea fen ed. Th is spell h as n oeffect on undead or con stru cts.
LightningArrow;3;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you m ake a ran ged w ea pon attack duringTh e next tim e you m ake a ran ged w ea pon attack duringthe spells duration, the w ea pon s am m unition, or thew ea pon itself if its a th rown weapon , tran sform s intoa bolt of lightning. Make the attack roll as norm al. Thetarget takes 4d8 lightning da m age on a hit, or h a lfas m u ch da m age on a m iss, instead of the w ea pon sn orm al dam age.W h eth er you hit or m iss, ea ch creatu re within 10 feetof the target m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. E achof th ese crea tu res takes 2d8 lightning da m age on afailed save, or h alf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th e piece of am m u nition or w ea pon then retu rn s toits n orm al form .A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age for botheffects of the spell in cr ea ses by 1d8 for ea ch slotlevel above 3rd.
Glibness;8;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;1 hour;-;Until the spell ends, wh en you m ake a Ch arism aUntil the spell ends, wh en you m ake a Ch arism ach eck, you ca n repla ce the n u m ber you roll with a 15.Additionally, n o m atter what you say, m a gic that wou lddeterm ine if you are telling the truth in dicates that youare bein g truthful.
BigbysHand;5;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;an eggsh ell and asn akeskin glove;1 minutes;-;You crea te a Large hand of sh im m erin g, translucentYou crea te a Large hand of sh im m erin g, translucentforce in an u n occu pied spa ce that you ca n see withinrange. Th e hand lasts for the spells duration, and itm oves at you r com m a n d, m im ickin g the m ovem en ts ofyou r own hand.Th e hand is an object that has AC 20 and hit pointsequ al to you r hit poin t m a xim u m . If it dr ops to 0 hitpoints, the spell ends. It has a Stren gth of 26 (+8) and aDexterity of 10 (+0). Th e hand d oesn t fill its space.W h en you cast the spell and as a bon u s action on yoursu bsequ en t turns, you ca n m ove the hand up to 60 feetand then ca u se on e of the followin g effects with it.Clenched Fist. Th e hand strikes on e creatu re orobject with in 5 feet of it. Make a m elee spell attack forthe hand u sin g you r gam e statistics. On a hit, the targettakes 4d8 for ce dam age.Forceful Hand. Th e hand attem pts to pu sh a creaturewithin 5 feet of it in a direction you ch oose. Makea ch eck with the h an ds Stren gth con tested by theStren gth (Athletics) ch eck of the target. If the target isMediu m or sm aller, you have advantage on the ch eck. Ifyou su cceed, the hand pu sh es the target up to 5 feet plusa n u m ber of feet equ al to five tim es you r spellcastin gability m odifier. Th e hand m oves with the target torem ain within 5 feet of it.Grasping Hand. Th e hand attem pts to grapple a H ugeor sm aller crea tu re within 5 feet of it. You u se the h an dsStren gth scor e to resolve the grapple. If the target isM ediu m or sm aller, you have advantage on the ch eck.W h ile the hand is grapplin g the target, you ca n u se abon u s action to have the hand cru sh it. W h en you doso, the target takes blu dgeon in g da m age equ al to 2d6 +you r spellcastin g ability m odifier.Interposing Hand. Th e hand in terposes itselfbetween you and a creatu re you ch oose until you givethe hand a different com m a n d. Th e hand m oves to staybetween you and the target, providin g you with h alfcover against the target. Th e target can t m ove th roughthe h an ds spa ce if its Stren gth scor e is less than orequ al to the h an ds Stren gth scor e. If its Stren gth scor eis h igh er than the h an ds Stren gth score, the target canm ove toward you th rou gh the h an ds spa ce, but thatspa ce is difficult terrain for the target.At Higher Levels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the da m age from theclen ch ed fist option in crea ses by 2d8 and the da m agefrom the graspin g hand in crea ses by 2d6 for each slotlevel above 5th.
ThornWhip;0;Transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;the stem of a plant with thorns;instant;-;You create a long, vine-like wh ip covered in th orn s thatYou create a long, vine-like wh ip covered in th orn s thatlash es out at your com m a n d toward a crea tu re in range.Make a m elee spell attack against the target. If theattack hits, the crea tu re takes 1d6 piercin g da m age, andif the crea tu re is Large or sm aller, you pull the creatu reup to 10 feet closer to you.Th is spells da m age in crea ses by 1d6 w h en you reach5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).
CordonofArrows;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;5 feet;V,S,M;four or m ore a rrows or bolts;8 hours;-;You plant fou r pieces of n on m a gica l am m u nition You plant fou r pieces of n on m a gica l am m u nition a rrows or cr ossbow boltsin the grou n d within rangeand lay m a gic u pon them to protect an area. Until thespell ends, wh en ever a creatu re oth er than you com eswithin 30 feet of the am m u nition for the first tim e on aturn or en ds its turn there, on e piece of am m u nition fliesup to strike it. Th e crea tu re m ust su cceed on a Dexteritysaving th row or take 1d6 piercin g dam age. Th e piece ofam m u nition is then destroyed. Th e spell en ds wh en noam m u nition rem ains.W h en you cast this spell, you can design ate anycrea tu res you ch oose, and the spell ign ores them .A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the am oun t ofam m u nition that ca n be affected in crea ses by two foreach slot level above 2nd.
TensersFloatingDisk;1;conjuration;True;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a drop of m ercury;1 hour;-;Th is spell crea tes a circular, h orizon tal plane of force,Th is spell crea tes a circular, h orizon tal plane of force,3 feet in diam eter and 1 in ch thick, that floats 3 feetabove the grou n d in an u n occu pied spa ce of you r ch oicethat you ca n see with in range. Th e disk rem ain s for theduration, and can h old up to 500 pou n ds. If m ore weigh tis pla ced on it, the spell ends, and everything on the diskfalls to the ground.Th e disk is im m obile wh ile you are within 20 feet ofit. If you m ove m ore than 20 feet away from it, the diskfollows you so that it rem ain s within 20 feet of you. Itcan m ove a cr oss uneven terrain, up or down stairs,slopes and the like, but it ca n t cr oss an elevation ch a n geof 10 feet or m ore. F or exam ple, the disk ca n t m ovea cr oss a 10-foot-deep pit, n or cou ld it leave su ch a pit if itw a s crea ted at the bottom .If you m ove m ore than 100 feet from the disk (typicallybeca u se it ca n t m ove arou nd an obsta cle to follow you),the spell ends.
FindSteed;2;conjuration;-;10 minutes;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You su m m on a spirit that a ssu m es the form of anYou su m m on a spirit that a ssu m es the form of anunusually intelligent, strong, and loyal steed, crea tin g along-lasting bon d with it. Appea rin g in an u n occu piedspa ce within range, the steed takes on a form that youch oose, su ch as a warh orse, a pony, a cam el, an elk, ora mastiff. (Your DM m ight allow oth er anim als to besu m m on ed as steeds.) Th e steed has the statistics of thech osen form , th ou gh it is a celestial, fey, or fiend (you rch oice) instead of its n orm al type. Additionally, if yoursteed has an In telligen ce of 5 or less, its In telligencebecom es 6, and it gain s the ability to understan d on elanguage of you r ch oice that you speak.Your steed serves you as a m ount, both in com ba t andout, and you have an instinctive bon d with it that allowsyou to fight as a sea m less unit. W h ile m ou n ted on yoursteed, you can m ake any spell you cast that targets onlyyou also target you r steed.W h en the steed drops to 0 hit points, it disappears,leavin g beh in d no ph ysical form . You can alsodism iss you r steed at any tim e as an action, cau sin git to disappear. In either ca se, ca stin g this spellagain su m m on s the sa m e steed, restored to its hitpoin t m a xim u m .W h ile you r steed is within 1 m ile of you, you cancom m u n ica te with it telepathically.You ca n t have m ore than on e steed bon ded by thisspell at a tim e. As an action, you ca n release the steedfrom its bon d at any tim e, cau sin g it to disappear.
AntilifeShell;5;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A sh im m erin g ba rrier exten ds out from you in a 10-footA sh im m erin g ba rrier exten ds out from you in a 10-footradius and m oves with you, rem ain in g cen tered onyou and h edgin g out crea tu res oth er than u n dea d andcon stru cts. Th e barrier lasts for the duration.Th e ba rrier prevents an affected creatu re frompa ssin g or reach in g through. An affected creatu recan cast spells or m ake attacks with ran ged or reachw ea pon s th rou gh the barrier.If you m ove so that an affected creatu re is for ced topa ss th rough the barrier, the spell ends.
PoisonSpray;0;Conjuration;-;1 action;-;10 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You exten d your hand toward a creatu re you can seeYou exten d your hand toward a creatu re you can seewithin ran ge and project a pu ff of n oxiou s gas from yourpalm . Th e crea tu re m ust su cceed on a Constitutionsaving th row or take 1d12 poison dam age.Th is spells da m age in crea ses by 1d12 wh en you reach5th level (2d 12), 11th level (3d 12), and 17th level (4d12).
Etherealness;7;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;8 hours;-;You step into the bor der region s of the E thereal Plane,You step into the bor der region s of the E thereal Plane,in the area wh ere it overlaps with your curren t plane.You rem ain in the Border E thereal for the duration oruntil you u se you r action to dism iss the spell. Durin gthis tim e, you can m ove in any direction . If you m oveup or down , every foot of m ovem en t costs an extra foot.You ca n see and h ear the plane you originated from , buteveryth in g there look s gray, and you ca n t see anythingm ore than 60 feet away.W h ile on the E thereal P lane, you ca n on ly affect andbe affected by oth er crea tu res on that plane. Creaturesthat arent on the E thereal P la n e ca n t perceive you andca n t interact with you, u n less a specia l ability or m agichas given them the ability to do so.You ign ore all objects and effects that aren t on theEthereal P lane, a llowin g you to m ove th rough objectsyou perceive on the plane you originated from .Wh en the spell ends, you im m ediately return to theplane you originated from in the spot you currentlyoccu py. If you occu py the sa m e spot as a solid objector creatu re wh en this happen s, you are im m ediatelyshunted to the n earest u n occu pied spa ce that youca n occu py and take for ce da m age equ al to tw ice then u m ber of feet you are m oved.Th is spell has n o effect if you cast it wh ile you are onthe E thereal P la n e or a plane that d oesn t border it, suchas on e of the Outer P la n es.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 8th level or higher, you ca n target up toth ree willin g crea tu res (in cluding you) for ea ch slot levelabove 7th. Th e crea tu res m ust be within 10 feet of youwh en you cast the spell.
MinorIllusion;0;Illusion;-;1 action;-;30 feet;S,M;a bit of fleece;1 minutes;-;You create a sou n d or an im age of an object withinYou create a sou n d or an im age of an object withinran ge that lasts for the duration. Th e illusion also en ds ifyou dism iss it as an action or cast this spell again.If you create a sou n d, its volu m e can ran ge from awh isper to a screa m . It ca n be you r voice, som eon eelses voice, a lion s roar, a beatin g of drum s, or anyoth er sou n d you ch oose. Th e sou n d con tin u es unabatedth roughou t the duration, or you can m ake discretesou n ds at different tim es before the spell ends.If you create an im age of an objectsu ch as a chair,m uddy footprin ts, or a sm all ch estit m ust be n o largerthan a 5-foot cube. Th e im age ca n t create sou n d, light,sm ell, or any oth er sen sor y effect. P h ysica l interactionwith the im age revea ls it to be an illusion, beca u seth in gs can pa ss th rough it.If a creatu re u ses its action to exam in e the sou n d orim age, the creatu re ca n determ ine that it is an illusionwith a su ccessfu l Intelligen ce (Investigation) ch eckagainst you r spell save DC. If a creatu re discern s theillusion for what it is, the illusion becom es faint tothe creature.
ProtectionfromEvilandGood;1;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;h oly water or pow dered silverand iron, wh ich the spell con su m es;10 minutes;-;Until the spell ends, on e willin g creatu re youUntil the spell ends, on e willin g creatu re youtouch is protected against certain types ofcreatu res: aberrations, celestials, elem entals, fey,fiends, and undead.Th e protection grants several benefits. Creatures ofth ose types have disadvantage on attack rolls againstthe target. Th e target also ca n t be ch a rm ed, frightened,or p ossessed by them . If the target is already charm ed,frightened, or p ossessed by su ch a creature, the targethas advantage on any n ew saving th row against therelevant effect.
MageArmor;1;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a piece of cu red leather;8 hours;-;You touch a willin g crea tu re w h o isn t wea rin g armor,You touch a willin g crea tu re w h o isn t wea rin g armor,and a protective m a gica l for ce su rrou n ds it until thespell ends. Th e targets ba se AC becom es 13 + itsDexterity m odifier. Th e spell en ds if the target don sarm or or if you dism iss the spell as an action.
BanishingSmite;5;abjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a w ea pon attackTh e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a w ea pon attackbefore this spell ends, your w ea pon cra ck les with force,and the attack dea ls an extra 5d10 force da m age to thetarget. Additionally, if this attack r edu ces the targetto 50 hit poin ts or fewer, you banish it. If the target isnative to a different plane of existen ce than the on eyou re on, the target disappea rs, retu rn in g to its h om eplane. If the target is native to the plane you re on, thecreatu re van ish es into a h a rm less dem iplane. Wh ilethere, the target is in capacitated. It rem ain s there untilthe spell en ds, at w h ich poin t the target rea ppea rs in thespa ce it left or in the n earest u n occu pied spa ce if thatspa ce is occu pied.
AstralProjection;9;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;10 feet;V,S,M;for each crea tu re you affect withthis spell, you m ust provide on e ja cin th worth at least1,000  gp and on e ornately ca rved ba r of silver worthat least 100 gp, all of wh ich the spell con su m es;special;-;You and up to eight willin g crea tu res with in rangeYou and up to eight willin g crea tu res with in rangeproject you r astral bod ies into the Astral P la n e (thespell fails and the castin g is wasted if you are alreadyon that plane). Th e m aterial body you leave beh in d isu n con sciou s and in a state of su spen ded anim ation itd oesn t n eed food or air and doesn t age.Your astral body resem bles you r m orta l form ina lm ost every way, replicating your gam e statistics andpossession s. Th e prin cipal differen ce is the addition ofa silvery cord that exten ds from between you r sh ou lderbla des and trails beh in d you, fading to invisibility after1 foot. Th is cor d is you r tether to you r m aterial body. Aslon g as the tether rem ain s intact, you ca n find you r wayh om e. If the cor d is cutsom eth in g that ca n happenon ly wh en an effect specifica lly states that it d oesyoursou l and body are separated, killin g you instantly.Your astral form can freely travel through the AstralP lane and can pa ss through portals there leading to anyother plane. If you enter a n ew plane or return to theplane you were on when castin g this spell, you r body andpossession s are transported along the silver cord, allowingyou to re-enter your body as you enter the n ew plane.Your astral form is a separate incarnation. Any dam ageor other effects that apply to it have n o effect on yourphysical body, nor do they persist wh en you return to it.Th e spell en ds for you and your com pa n ion s wh enyou u se you r action to dism iss it. W h en the spell ends,the affected creatu re retu rn s to its ph ysical body,and it awakens.Th e spell m ight also en d early for you or on e of yourcom pa n ion s. A su ccessfu l  dispel m agic spell u sedagainst an astral or ph ysical body en ds the spell for thatcreature. If a crea tu res origin al body or its astral formdrops to 0 hit points, the spell en ds for that creatu re. Ifthe spell en ds and the silver cord is intact, the cor d pu llsthe crea tu res astral form ba ck to its body, en din g itsstate of su spen ded anim ation.If you are retu rn ed to you r body prem aturely, yourcom pa n ion s rem ain in their astral form s and m ust findtheir own way ba ck to their bodies, usually by droppin gto 0 hit points.
ThunderousSmite;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e first tim e you hit with a m elee wea pon attackTh e first tim e you hit with a m elee wea pon attackdu ring this spells duration, you r w ea pon rin gs withthunder that is audible with in 300 feet of you, and theattack dea ls an extra 2d6 thunder da m age to the target.Additionally, if the target is a creatu re, it m ust su cceedon a Stren gth saving th row or be pu sh ed 10 feet awayfrom you an d kn ock ed prone.
ScorchingRay;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You create th ree rays of fire and hurl th em at targetsYou create th ree rays of fire and hurl th em at targetswith in range. You ca n hurl them at on e target or several.Make a ran ged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, thetarget takes 2d6 fire dam age.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, you create on e additionalray for each slot level above 2nd.
Demiplane;8;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;S;-;1 hour;-;You crea te a sh a dowy d oor on a flat solid su rfa ce thatYou crea te a sh a dowy d oor on a flat solid su rfa ce thatyou ca n see within range. Th e door is large en ou gh toallow Mediu m crea tu res to pa ss th rough unh in dered.W h en open ed, the door lea ds to a dem iplane thata ppears to be an em pty r oom 30 feet in each dim ension ,m a de of w ood or stone. W h en the spell ends, the doordisappea rs, and any crea tu res or objects inside thedem ipla n e rem ain trapped there, as the door alsodisappea rs from the oth er side.E a ch tim e you cast this spell, you ca n create a n ewdem iplane, or have the sh a dowy door con n ect to adem ipla n e you crea ted with a previou s castin g of thisspell. Additionally, if you k n ow the nature and contentsof a dem iplane created by a castin g of this spell byan oth er creatu re, you can have the sh a dowy doorcon n ect to its dem ipla n e instead.
Slow;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a drop of m ola sses;1 minutes;-;You alter tim e arou nd up to six crea tu res of yourYou alter tim e arou nd up to six crea tu res of yourch oice in a 40-foot cu be within range. E a ch target m ustsu cceed on a W isdom saving th row or be affected bythis spell for the duration.An affected targets speed is halved, it ta kes a -2pen alty to AC and Dexterity saving th rows, and it ca n tu se reaction s. On its turn, it ca n u se either an action ora bon u s action, not both. Rega rdless of the crea tu resabilities or m a gic item s, it ca n t m ake m ore than onem elee or ran ged attack du ring its turn.If the crea tu re attem pts to cast a spell with a castin gtim e of 1 action, roll a d20. On an 11 or higher, the spelld oesn t take effect until the crea tu res next turn, and thecreatu re m ust u se its action on that turn to com plete thespell. If it ca n t, the spell is wasted.A creatu re affected by this spell m a kes anotherW isdom saving th row at the end of its turn. On asu ccessfu l save, the effect en ds for it.
Knock;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;C h oose an object that you ca n see within range. Th eC h oose an object that you ca n see within range. Th eobject ca n be a door, a box, a chest, a set of m a n a cles, apa dlock, or an oth er object that con tain s a m u n dan e orm a gica l m ea n s that prevents a ccess.A target that is held shut by a m u n dan e lock or thatis stu ck or ba rred becom es u n locked, unstuck, orunbarred. If the object h as m ultiple locks, on ly on e ofthem is u n locked.If you ch oose a target that is held shut with  arcanelock, that spell is su ppressed for 10 m inutes, duringwh ich tim e the target ca n be open ed and shut norm ally.W h en you cast the spell, a lou d kn ock, audible from asfar away as 300 feet, em anates from the target object.
Mending;0;Transmutation;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;two lodeston es;instant;-;Th is spell repairs a single break or tear in an objectTh is spell repairs a single break or tear in an objectyou touch, su ch as a broken chain link, two halves ofa broken key, a torn cloak, or a lea kin g win eskin . Aslon g as the brea k or tear is n o larger than 1 foot inany dim ension , you m en d it. leaving n o trace of theform er dam age.Th is spell can physically repair a m a gic itemor con stru ct, but the spell ca n t restore m a gic tosu ch an object.
Geas;5;enchantment;-;1 minute;-;60 feet;V;-;30 days;-;You pla ce a m a gica l com m a n d on a crea tu re that youYou pla ce a m a gica l com m a n d on a crea tu re that youca n see within range, forcin g it to ca r ry out som eser vice or refrain from som e action or cou r se of activityas you decide. If the creatu re ca n understan d you, itm ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row or becom ech a rm ed by you for the duration. W h ile the creatu reis ch a rm ed by you, it ta kes 5 d10 psych ic da m ageea ch tim e it acts in a m a n n er directly cou n ter to yourin stru ction s, but n o m ore than on ce each day. A creaturethat can t understan d you is u naffected by the spell.You ca n issu e any com m a n d you ch oose, sh ort of anactivity that wou ld result in certain death. Sh ou ld youissu e a su icida l com m a n d, the spell ends.You can en d the spell early by u sin g an action todism iss it. A  rem ove curse, greater restoration, or  wishspell also en ds it.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell usinga spell slot of 7th or 8th level, the duration is 1 year.W h en you cast this spell u sing a spell slot of 9th level,the spell lasts until it is en ded by on e of the spellsm en tion ed above.
EnhanceAbility;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;fur or a feather from a beast;1 hour;-;You tou ch a creatu re and bestow u pon it a m a gica lYou tou ch a creatu re and bestow u pon it a m a gica len hancem en t. Ch oose on e of the followin g effects thetarget gain s that effect until the spell ends.Bea r s Endurance. Th e target has advantage onConstitution ch eck s. It also gains 2d6 tem pora ry hitpoints, wh ich are lost wh en the spell ends.Bull s Strength. Th e target has advantageon Stren gth ch ecks, and his or her carryin gcapacity dou bles.Cat s Grace. Th e target has advantage on Dexteritych ecks. It a lso doesn t take da m age from fallin g 20 feetor less if it isn t incapacitated.Eagle s Splendor. Th e target h as advantage onCh arism a ch ecks.Fox s Cunning. Th e target h as advantage onIn telligen ce ch ecks.Owl s Wisdom. Th e target has advantage onW isdom ch ecks.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u sin ga spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you ca n target on eadditional crea tu re for ea ch slot level above 2nd.
HypnoticPattern;3;illusion;-;1 action;-;120 feet;S,M;a glowin g stick of in cen se or acrystal vial filled with ph osph orescen t m aterial;1 minutes;-;You create a twistin g pattern of colors that w eavesYou create a twistin g pattern of colors that w eavesth rough the air in side a 30-foot cu be within range.Th e pattern appears for a m om en t and van ish es. E a chcreatu re in the area w h o sees the pattern m ust m akea W isdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creatu rebecom es ch a rm ed for the duration. Wh ile ch a rm edby this spell, the creature is incapacitated and hasa speed of 0.Th e spell en ds for an affected creatu re if it takes anyda m age or if som eon e else u ses an action to sh ake thecrea tu re out of its stupor.
PrismaticSpray;7;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;Eight m u lticolored rays of light flash from you r hand.Eight m u lticolored rays of light flash from you r hand.E a ch ray is a different color and has a different powerand pu rpose. E a ch creatu re in a 60-foot con e m ustm ake a Dexterity saving throw. F or each target, roll a d8to determ ine w h ich color ray a ffects it.1. Red. Th e target takes 10d6 fire da m age on a failedsave, or h alf as m uch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.2. Orange. Th e target takes 10d6 acid da m age on afailed save, or h alf as m u ch dam age on a su ccessfu l one.3. Yellow. The target takes 10d6 lightning dam age on afailed save, or half as m uch dam age on a su ccessfu l one.4. Green. Th e target takes 10d6 poison da m age on afailed save, or h alf as m uch dam age on a su ccessfu l one.5. Blue. Th e target takes 10d6 cold dam age on a failedsave, or h alf as m uch dam age on a su ccessfu l one.6. Indigo. On a failed save, the target is restrained.It m ust then m ake a Constitution saving th row at theen d of ea ch of its turns. If it su ccessfu lly sa ves th reetim es, the spell ends. If it fails its save th ree tim es,it perm anen tly turns to stone and is su bjected to thepetrified condition . Th e su ccesses and failures don tn eed to be consecu tive keep track of both until thetarget collects three of a kind.7. Violet. On a failed save, the target is blinded. Itm ust then m ake a W isdom saving th row at the start ofyou r next turn. A su ccessfu l save en ds the blin dn ess. Ifit fails that save, the crea tu re is tran sported to anotherplane of existen ce of the DM s ch oosin g and is n o lon gerblinded. (Typically, a crea tu re that is on a plane that isn tits h om e plane is ba n ish ed h om e, wh ile oth er crea tu resare usually cast into the Astral or E thereal planes.)8. Special. Th e target is stru ck by two rays. Roll twicem ore, rerollin g any 8.
LegendLore;5;divination;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;in cen se worth at least 250 gp,wh ich the spell con su m es, and fou r ivory strips worthat least 50 gp each;instant;-;N am e or descr ibe a person , pla ce, or object. Th e spellN am e or descr ibe a person , pla ce, or object. Th e spellbrin gs to your m in d a brief su m m a ry of the significantlore about the th in g you nam ed. Th e lore m ight con sistof current tales, forgotten stories, or even secret lorethat has never been widely kn own . If the thing youn am ed isn t of legendary im portan ce, you gain n oin form ation. Th e m ore in form ation you already haveabout the thing, the m ore pr ecise and detailed thein form ation you receive is.Th e in form ation you learn is accurate but m ight becou ch ed in figurative language. F or exam ple, if youhave a m ysterious m a gic axe on hand, the spell m ightyield this in form ation: “W oe to the evildoer w h ose handtou ch es the axe, for even the haft slices the hand of theevil on es. Only a true Child of Stone, lover and belovedof Moradin, m ay awaken the true pow ers of the axe, andon ly with the sa cred word  Rudnogg on the lips.”
DeathWard;4;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;8 hours;-;You tou ch a creatu re and grant it a m ea su re ofYou tou ch a creatu re and grant it a m ea su re ofprotection from death.Th e first tim e the target w ou ld drop to 0 hit poin ts as aresult of takin g dam age, the target instead drops to 1 hitpoint, and the spell ends.If the spell is still in effect w h en the target is su bjectedto an effect that wou ld kill it in stan taneou sly withoutdealin g dam age, that effect is instead negated againstthe target, an d the spell ends.
ArcaneEye;4;divination;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a bit of bat fur;1 hour;-;You crea te an invisible, m a gica l eye within ran ge thatYou crea te an invisible, m a gica l eye within ran ge thathovers in the air for the duration.You m entally receive visual in form ation from the eye,wh ich h as n orm al vision and darkvision out to 30 feet.Th e eye ca n look in every direction .As an action, you ca n m ove the eye up to 30 feet inany direction . Th ere is no lim it to h ow far away fromyou the eye can m ove, but it ca n t enter an oth er planeof existen ce. A solid ba rrier block s the eyes m ovem ent,but the eye ca n pa ss th rou gh an open in g as sm all as 1inch in diameter.
ContactOtherPlane;5;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;You m entally con tact a dem igod, the spirit of a lon g-deadYou m entally con tact a dem igod, the spirit of a lon g-deadsage, or som e oth er m ysterious entity from anotherplane. Con tactin g this extraplanar intelligence ca nstrain or even break you r m ind. W h en you cast thisspell, m ake a DC 15 In telligen ce saving throw. On afailure, you take 6d6 psych ic da m age and are insaneuntil you finish a lon g rest. W h ile insane, you ca n t takeactions, ca n t understand what oth er crea tu res say, ca n tread, and spea k on ly in gibberish . A  greater restorationspell cast on you en ds this effect.On a su ccessfu l save, you can ask the entity up to fivequestion s. You m ust ask you r qu estion s before the spellends. Th e DM a n swers ea ch qu estion with on e word,su ch as “yes,” “n o,” “m a ybe,” “never,” “irrelevant,” or“u n clea r” (if the entity d oesn t kn ow the a n swer to thequestion). If a on e-word an swer w ou ld be m isleading,the DM m ight instead offer a sh ort ph rase as an answer.
GlobeofInvulnerability;6;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a glass or crystal bea d thatshatters wh en the spell ends;1 minutes;-;An im m obile, faintly sh im m erin g ba rrier sprin gs intoAn im m obile, faintly sh im m erin g ba rrier sprin gs intoexisten ce in a 10-foot radius arou nd you and rem ain s forthe duration.An y spell of 5th level or lower ca st from ou tside theba rrier cant affect crea tu res or objects with in it, evenif the spell is cast u sin g a h igh er level spell slot. Su ch aspell can target crea tu res and objects within the barrier,but the spell has n o effect on them . Sim ilarly, the areawith in the barrier is exclu ded from the areas affectedby su ch spells.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 7th level or higher, the barrier block s spellsof on e level h igh er for each slot level above 6th.
Haste;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a shaving of licor ice root;1 minutes;-;C h oose a willin g crea tu re that you ca n see within range.C h oose a willin g crea tu re that you ca n see within range.Until the spell ends, the targets speed is dou bled, itgains a +2 bon u s to AC, it h as advantage on Dexteritysaving th rows, and it gain s an additional action on eachof its turns. That action can be u sed on ly to take theAttack (on e wea pon attack only), Dash, Disen gage, Hide,or U se an Object action.W h en the spell ends, the target ca n t m ove or takeaction s until after its next turn, as a wave of lethargysw eeps over it.
ViciousMockery;0;Enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You unleash a string of insults la ced with subtleYou unleash a string of insults la ced with subtleen ch an tm ents at a crea tu re you ca n see within range. Ifthe target ca n h ear you (though it n eed not understandyou), it m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row or take1d4 psych ic da m age and have disadvantage on the nextattack roll it m a kes before the end of its next turn.Th is spells da m age in crea ses by 1d4 wh en you reach5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).
Dream;5;illusion;-;1 minute;-;special;V,S,M;a handful of sand, a dab of ink,and a writin g quill plucked from a sleepin g bird;8 hours;-;Th is spell sh apes a crea tu res dream s. Ch oose aTh is spell sh apes a crea tu res dream s. Ch oose acrea tu re kn own to you as the target of this spell. Th etarget m ust be on the sa m e plane of existen ce as you.Creatures that don t sleep, su ch as elves, ca n t becon tacted by th is spell. You, or a willin g creatu re youtouch, enters a tran ce state, acting as a m essen ger.W h ile in the tran ce, the m essen ger is aware of his orher su rrou n din gs, but ca n t take action s or m ove.If the target is asleep, the m essen ger appears in thetargets drea m s and ca n con verse with the target aslon g as it rem ain s asleep, th rough the duration of thespell. Th e m essen ger can also sh ape the environm entof the dream , crea tin g la n dsca pes, objects, and oth erim ages. Th e m essen ger can em erge from the tran ce atany tim e, en din g the effect of the spell early. Th e targetreca lls the dream perfectly u pon wakin g. If the target isawake wh en you cast the spell, the m essen ger k n ows it,and ca n either end the tran ce (and the spell) or wait forthe target to fall asleep, at wh ich poin t the m essen gera ppears in the targets dream s.You ca n m ake the m essen ger appear m on strou sand terrifying to the target. If you do, the m essen gerca n deliver a m essa ge of n o m ore than ten w ords andthen the target m ust m ake a W isdom saving throw. Ona failed save, ech oes of the phantasm al m on strosityspawn a nigh tm are that lasts the duration of the targetssleep and prevents the target from gain in g any benefitfrom that rest. In addition, wh en the target wa k es up, ittakes 3d6 psych ic dam age.If you have a body part, lock of hair, clipping from anail, or sim ilar portion of the targets body, the targetm a kes its saving th row with disadvantage.
FingerofDeath;7;necromancy;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You sen d negative en ergy cou r sin g th rough a creatureYou sen d negative en ergy cou r sin g th rough a creaturethat you can see with in range, cau sin g it sea rin g pain.Th e target m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw. Ittakes 7d8 + 30 n ecrotic da m age on a failed save, or h alfas m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one.A h u m an oid killed by this spell rises at the start ofyou r next turn as a zom bie that is perm anen tly u nderyou r com m a n d, followin g you r verbal orders to the bestof its ability.
HuntersMark;1;divination;-;1 bonus action;-;90 feet;V;-;1 hour;-;You ch oose a creatu re you can see within ran ge andYou ch oose a creatu re you can see within ran ge andm ystically m ark it as you r quarry. Until the spell ends,you deal an extra 1d6 da m age to the target wh en everyou hit it with a w ea pon attack, and you have advantageon any W isdom (P erception ) or W isdom (Survival)ch eck you m a ke to find it. If the target drops to 0 hitpoin ts before this spell ends, you ca n u se a bon u s actionon a su bsequ en t turn of you rs to m ark a n ew creature.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast th is spell u singa spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you ca n m aintain yourcon cen tra tion on the spell for up to 8 h ours. W h en youu se a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can m aintainyou r con cen tra tion on the spell for up to 24 hours.
TeleportationCircle;5;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;10 feet;V,M;rare ch a lks and inks in fu sed withpreciou s gem s with 50 gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;1 round;-;As you cast the spell, you draw a 10-foot-diam eterAs you cast the spell, you draw a 10-foot-diam etercircle on the grou n d in scribed with sigils that linkyou r loca tion to a perm anen t teleportation circle ofyou r ch oice w h ose sigil sequ en ce you k n ow and that ison the sa m e plane of existen ce as you. A sh im m erin gporta l open s within the circle you drew and rem ainsopen until the end of you r next turn. Any creatu re thatenters the porta l instantly appears within 5 feet of thedestination circle or in the n earest u n occu pied spa ce ifthat spa ce is occu pied.Many m a jor tem ples, guilds, and oth er im portantpla ces have perm anen t teleportation circles in scribedsom ewh ere within their con fin es. E a ch su ch circlein clu des a unique sigil sequ en cea string of m a gica lru n es a rran ged in a particu lar pattern. W h en you firstgain the ability to cast this spell, you learn the sigilsequ en ces for two destin ations on the Material Plane,determ in ed by the DM. You ca n learn additional sigilsequ en ces du ring your adventures. You can com m ita n ew sigil sequ en ce to m em ory after studying itfor 1 minute.You ca n create a perm an en t teleportation circle bycastin g this spell in the sa m e loca tion every day for on eyear. You n eed not u se the circle to teleport wh en youcast the spell in this way.
ArmorofAgathys;1;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a cu p of water;1 hour;-;A protective m a gica l for ce su rrou n ds you, m a n ifestin gA protective m a gica l for ce su rrou n ds you, m a n ifestin gas a spectra l frost that covers you an d you r gear.You gain 5 tem pora ry hit poin ts for the duration. If acrea tu re hits you with a m elee attack wh ile you haveth ese hit points, the crea tu re takes 5 cold dam age.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, both the tem pora ry hitpoin ts and the cold da m age in crea se by 5 for ea ch slotlevel above 1st.
Sequester;7;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a powder com p osed of diam on d,em erald, ruby, and sapph ire dust worth at least 5,000gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;By m ea n s of this spell, a willin g creatu re or an objectBy m ea n s of this spell, a willin g creatu re or an objectca n be h idden away, sa fe from detection for theduration. Wh en you cast the spell and tou ch the target,it becom es invisible and ca n t be targeted by divinationspells or perceived th rou gh scryin g sen sor s crea ted bydivination spells.If the target is a creatu re, it falls into a state ofsu spen ded anim ation. Tim e cea ses to flow for it, and itd oesn t grow older.You ca n set a con dition for the spell to en d early.Th e con dition ca n be anything you ch oose, but itm ust occu r or be visible within 1 m ile of the target.E xam ples in clude “after 1,000 yea r s” or “wh en thetarrasque awaken s.” Th is spell also en ds if the targetta kes any dam age.
WrathfulSmite;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit with a m elee w ea pon attackTh e next tim e you hit with a m elee w ea pon attackdu ring this spells duration, you r attack deals an extra1d6 psych ic dam age. Additionally, if the target is acreatu re, it m ust m ake a W isdom saving th row or befrigh ten ed of you until the spell ends. As an action, thecreatu re ca n m ake a W isdom ch eck against you r spellsave DC to steel its resolve and en d this spell.
TrueStrike;0;Divination;-;1 action;-;30 feet;S;-;1 round;-;You extend you r hand and point a finger at a target inYou extend you r hand and point a finger at a target inrange. Your m a gic grants you a brief insight into thetargets defen ses. On you r next turn, you gain advantageon you r first attack roll against the target, provided thatthis spell h asn t ended.
DissonantWhispers;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You wh isper a discorda n t m elody that on ly on e creatureYou wh isper a discorda n t m elody that on ly on e creatureof you r ch oice within ran ge can hear, wra ckin g it withterrible pain. Th e target m ust m a ke a W isdom savingthrow. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 psych ic da m age andm ust im m ediately u se its reaction , if available, to m oveas far as its sp eed allows away from you. Th e crea tu redoesn t m ove into obviou sly da n gerou s ground, suchas a fire or a pit. On a su ccessfu l save, the target takesh alf as m u ch da m age and d oesn t have to m ove away. Adea fen ed creatu re autom atically su cceeds on the save.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for ea ch slot level above 1st.
ArcaneGate;6;conjuration;-;1 action;-;500 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You crea te linked teleportation porta ls that rem ain openYou crea te linked teleportation porta ls that rem ain openfor the duration. C h oose two poin ts on the grou n d thatyou ca n see, on e poin t within 10 feet of you and on epoint within 500 feet of you. A circu la r portal, 10 feetin diam eter, open s over each point. If the porta l wou ldopen in the spa ce occu pied by a creatu re, the spell fails,and the castin g is lost.Th e porta ls are two-dim ension al glowing ringsfilled with mist, hovering inches from the grou n d andperpen dicu la r to it at the poin ts you ch oose. A ring isvisible on ly from on e side (your ch oice), wh ich is the sidethat fu n ction s as a portal.An y crea tu re or object entering the portal exits fromthe oth er porta l as if the two were adjacent to eachother pa ssin g th rou gh a porta l from the n on porta l sideh as n o effect. Th e m ist that fills ea ch porta l is opaqu eand block s vision th rough it. On you r turn, you canrotate the rin gs as a bon u s action so that the active sidefa ces in a different direction .
DominatePerson;5;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attempt to begu ile a h u m an oid that you ca n seeYou attempt to begu ile a h u m an oid that you ca n seewithin range. It m ust su cceed on a W isdom savingth row or be ch a rm ed by you for the duration. If you orcrea tu res that are friendly to you are fighting it, it hasadvantage on the saving throw.W h ile the target is charm ed, you have a telepathic linkwith it as lon g as the two of you are on the sa m e planeof existen ce. You ca n u se this telepathic link to issu ecom m a n ds to the creatu re w h ile you are con sciou s (noaction required), wh ich it does its best to obey. You canspecify a sim ple and general cou r se of action, su ch as“Attack that creatu re,” “Ru n over th ere,” or “Fetch thatobject.” If the creatu re com pletes the order and d oesn tr eceive further direction from you, it defen ds andpr eserves itself to the best of its ability.You ca n u se you r action to take total and precisecon trol of the target. Until the en d of you r n ext turn, thecreatu re takes only the action s you ch oose, and d oesn tdo anything that you don t allow it to do. Du rin g thistim e you can a lso ca u se the creatu re to u se a reaction,but this requ ires you to u se you r own reaction as well.E ach tim e the target takes dam age, it m a kes a n ewW isdom saving th row against the spell. If the savingth row su cceeds, the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell usinga 6th level spell slot, the duration is concentration ,up to 10 m inutes. W h en you u se a 7th level spell slot,the duration is concentration , up to 1 hour. W h en youu se a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the duration iscon cen tra tion , up to 8 h ours.
Eyebite;6;necromancy;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;For the spells duration, you r eyes becom e an in ky voidFor the spells duration, you r eyes becom e an in ky voidim bu ed with dread power. One creatu re of your ch oicewithin 60 feet of you that you ca n see m ust su cceedon a W isdom saving th row or be affected by on e of thefollowin g effects of you r ch oice for the duration. Oneach of you r turns until the spell ends, you ca n u seyou r action to target an oth er crea tu re but ca n t targeta crea tu re again if it h as su cceeded on a saving th rowagainst this castin g of  eyebite.A sleep. Th e target falls u n con sciou s. It w a k es up if ittakes any da m age or if an oth er crea tu re u ses its actionto sh ake the sleeper awake.Panicked. Th e target is frightened of you. On eachof its turns, the frigh ten ed creatu re m ust take theDash action and m ove away from you by the sa fest andsh ortest available route, u n less there is n owh ere tom ove. If the target m oves to a pla ce at least 60 feet awayfrom you wh ere it ca n n o lon ger see you, this effect ends.S ickened. Th e target has disadvantage on attack rollsand ability ch ecks. At the en d of ea ch of its turns, it canm ake an oth er W isdom saving throw. If it su cceeds,the effect ends.
GuardianofFaith;4;conjuration;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V;-;8 hours;-;A Large spectra l guardian appears and h overs for theA Large spectra l guardian appears and h overs for theduration in an u n occu pied spa ce of your ch oice that youcan see within range. Th e guardian occu pies that spa ceand is indistinct except for a glea m in g sword and shieldem bla zon ed with the sym bol of you r deity.An y crea tu re h ostile to you that m oves to a spa cewithin 10 feet of the guardian for the first tim e on aturn m ust su cceed on a Dexterity saving throw. Th ecreatu re takes 20 radiant da m age on a failed save, orh alf as m u ch da m age on a su ccessfu l one. Th e guardianvan ish es wh en it h as dealt a total of 60 dam age.
TreeStride;5;conjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You gain the ability to enter a tree and m ove from insideYou gain the ability to enter a tree and m ove from insideit to in side an oth er tree of the sa m e kind within 500feet. Both trees m ust be living and at least the sa m e sizeas you. You m ust u se 5 feet of m ovem en t to enter a tree.You instantly k n ow the location of all oth er trees of thesa m e kind within 500 feet and, as part of the m ove u sedto enter the tree, ca n either pa ss into on e of th ose treesor step out of the tree you re in. You appear in a spot ofyou r ch oice within 5 feet of the destination tree, u singanother 5 feet of m ovem en t. If you have n o m ovem en tleft, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you entered.You ca n u se this tran sportation ability on ce per roundfor the duration. You m ust end ea ch turn ou tside a tree.
BlindingSmite;3;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a m elee w ea ponTh e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a m elee w ea ponattack du ring this spells duration, you r wea pon flareswith bright light, and the attack dea ls an extra 3d8radiant da m age to the target. Additionally, the targetm ust su cceed on a Constitution saving th row or beblin ded until the spell ends.A crea tu re blin ded by this spell m a kes anotherConstitution saving th row at the en d of ea ch of its turns.On a su ccessfu l save, it is n o lon ger blinded.
CreateFoodandWater;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You crea te 45 pou n ds of food and 30 gallon s of waterYou crea te 45 pou n ds of food and 30 gallon s of wateron the grou n d or in con tain ers within range, en ou ghto su stain up to fifteen h u m an oids or five steeds for24 h ou rs. Th e food is blan d but n ourishing, and spoilsif uneaten after 24 h ours. Th e water is clean anddoesn t go bad.
AuraofPurity;4;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];P u rifyin g en ergy radiates from you in an aura with aP u rifyin g en ergy radiates from you in an aura with a30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura m oveswith you, cen tered on you. E a ch n on h ostile creatu rein the aura (in cluding you) ca n t becom e diseased,h as resista n ce to poison dam age, and has advantageon saving th rows against effects that ca u se any of thefollowin g con dition s: blinded, ch a rm ed, deafened,frightened, paralyzed, poison ed, and stunned.
SpeakwithDead;3;necromancy;-;1 action;-;10 feet;V,S,M;bu rn in g in cen se;10 minutes;-;You grant the sem bla n ce of life and intelligence to aYou grant the sem bla n ce of life and intelligence to acorpse of your ch oice within range, allowing it to answerthe qu estion s you pose. Th e cor pse m ust still have am outh and ca n t be undead. Th e spell fails if the corpsew a s the target of this spell within the last 10 days.Until the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to fivequestions. Th e cor pse k n ows on ly what it kn ew in life,including the languages it knew. An swers are usuallybrief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse is under nocom pu lsion to offer a truthful an swer if you are hostileto it or it recogn izes you as an enemy. Th is spell doesn treturn the creatu res sou l to its body, on ly its anim atingspirit. Thus, the corpse ca n t learn n ew inform ation,doesn t com preh en d anything that has h appen ed sin ce itdied, and ca n t specu late about future events.
LocateObject;2;divination;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a forked twig;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];D escribe or n am e an object that is fam iliar to you. YouD escribe or n am e an object that is fam iliar to you. Yousen se the direction to the objects location, as lon g asthat object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the object is inm otion , you k n ow the direction of its m ovem ent.Th e spell ca n locate a specific object kn own to you,as lon g as you have seen it up closewithin 30 feetatleast on ce. Alternatively, the spell can locate the n earestobject of a particu lar kind, su ch as a certain kind ofapparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon .Th is spell ca n t locate an object if any th ickn ess oflead, even a thin sheet, block s a direct path between youand the object.
EvardsBlackTentacles;4;conjuration;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;a piece of tentacle from a giantoctopu s or a giant squid;1 minutes;-;Squ irm in g, ebon y tentacles fill a 20-foot squ a re onSqu irm in g, ebon y tentacles fill a 20-foot squ a re ongrou n d that you can see within range. F or the duration,th ese tentacles turn the grou n d in the area intodifficult terrain.W h en a creatu re enters the affected area for the firsttim e on a turn or starts its turn there, the creaturemust su cceed on a Dexterity saving th row or take 3d6blu dgeon in g da m age and be restrain ed by the tentaclesuntil the spell ends. A creatu re that starts its turn in thearea and is already restrain ed by the ten tacles takes 3d6blu dgeon in g dam age.A crea tu re restrained by the tentacles ca n u se itsaction to m ake a Stren gth or Dexterity ch eck (its ch oice)against you r spell save DC. On a su ccess, it frees itself.
NystulsMagicAura;2;illusion;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a sm all squ a re of silk;24 hours;-;You pla ce an illusion on a crea tu re or an objectYou pla ce an illusion on a crea tu re or an objectyou tou ch so that divination spells reveal falsein form ation about it. Th e target ca n be a willin gcrea tu re or an object that isn t bein g ca rried or w orn byan oth er creature.W h en you cast the spell, ch oose on e or both of thefollowin g effects. Th e effect lasts for the duration. If youcast this spell on the sa m e creatu re or object every dayfor 30 days, pla cin g the sa m e effect on it each tim e, theillusion lasts until it is dispelled.False Aura. You ch a n ge the way the target appearsto spells and m a gica l effects, su ch as  detect m agic,that detect m a gica l auras. You ca n m ake a n on m a gica lobject appear m agical, a m a gica l object appearn on m agica l, or ch a n ge the objects m a gica l aura so thatit appears to belon g to a specific sch ool of m a gic thatyou ch oose. W h en you u se this effect on an object, youca n m ake the false m a gic apparent to any creatu re thath an dles the item.M ask. You change the way the target appears to spellsand m a gica l effects that detect creatu re types, su ch as apaladin s Divine S en se or the trigger of a  sym bol spell.You ch oose a creatu re type and oth er spells and m a gica leffects treat the target as if it w ere a creatu re of thattype or of that alignm ent.
RayofSickness;1;necromancy;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A ray of sicken in g green ish en ergy la sh es out towardA ray of sicken in g green ish en ergy la sh es out towarda crea tu re with in range. Make a ran ged spell attackagainst the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d8 poisonda m age and m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw.On a failed save, it is also poison ed until the en d ofyou r n ext turn.A t H igher L evels. W h en you ca st this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for each slot level above 1st.
DispelEvilandGood;5;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;holy water or powderedsilver and iron;1 minutes;-;Sh im m erin g en ergy su rrou n ds and protects you fromSh im m erin g en ergy su rrou n ds and protects you fromfey, undead, and crea tu res originatin g from beyon d theMaterial P lane. For the duration, celestials, elem entals,fey, fiends, and undead have disadvantage on attackrolls against you.You ca n en d the spell early by u sing either of thefollowin g specia l fu nction s.B reak Enchantment. As you r action, you touch acreatu re you ca n reach that is ch a rm ed, frightened, orp ossessed by a celestial, an elem ental, a fey, a fiend,or an undead. Th e creature you tou ch is no lon gerch a rm ed, frightened, or p ossessed by su ch creatu res.Dismissal. As you r action, m ake a m elee spell attackagainst a celestial, an elem ental, a fey, a fiend, or anundead you can reach. On a hit, you attempt to drivethe creatu re ba ck to its h om e plane. Th e creatu re mustsu cceed on a Ch arism a saving th row or be sent ba ck toits h om e plane (if it isnt there already). If they aren t ontheir h om e plane, undead are sent to the Sh a dowfell,and fey are sent to the Feywild.
MirrorImage;2;illusion;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Th ree illu sory du plicates of you r self appear in yourTh ree illu sory du plicates of you r self appear in yourspace. Until the spell ends, the duplicates m ove withyou and m im ic you r actions, sh ifting position so itsim possible to track wh ich im age is real. You can u seyou r action to dism iss the illusory duplicates.E ach tim e a creatu re targets you with an attack du ringthe spells duration, roll a d20 to determ in e wh eth er theattack in stead targets on e of you r duplicates.If you have th ree duplicates, you m ust roll a 6 orh igh er to ch a n ge the attacks target to a duplicate. Withtwo duplicates, you m ust roll an 8 or higher. With on eduplicate, you m ust roll an 11 or higher.A duplicates AC equ als 10 + you r Dexterity m odifier.If an attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is destroyed. Aduplicate ca n be destroyed on ly by an attack that hits it.It ign ores all oth er da m age and effects. Th e spell endswh en all three du plicates are destroyed.A crea tu re is u n affected by this spell if it ca n t see, if itrelies on sen ses oth er than sight, su ch as blindsight, orif it can perceive illusion s as false, as with truesight.
WallofForce;5;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of pow der m a de bycru sh in g a clear gem stone;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];An invisible wall of force sprin gs into existen ce at aAn invisible wall of force sprin gs into existen ce at apoint you ch oose within range. Th e wall appears inany orientation you ch oose, as a h orizon tal or verticalbarrier or at an angle. It can be free floating or restingon a solid su rface. You can form it into a h em isph ericaldom e or a sph ere with a radius of up to 10 feet, or youcan sh ape a flat su rfa ce m a de up of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. E a ch panel m ust be con tigu ou s withan oth er panel. In any form , the wall is 1/4 inch thick.It lasts for the duration. If the wall cuts th rough acrea tu res spa ce wh en it appears, the crea tu re is pu sh edto on e side of the wall (you r ch oice w h ich side).N othin g ca n physically pa ss th rough the wall. It isim m u n e to all da m age and ca n t be dispelled by  dispelm agic. A disintegrate spell destroys the wall instantly,however. Th e wall also exten ds into the E thereal Plane,block in g eth ereal travel th rough the wall.
Aid;2;abjuration;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a tiny strip of white cloth;8 hours;-;Your spell bolsters you r allies with tou gh n ess andYour spell bolsters you r allies with tou gh n ess andresolve. C h oose up to th ree crea tu res within range.E a ch targets hit poin t m a xim u m and curren t hit pointsin crea se by 5 for the duration.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 3rd level or higher, a targets hit pointsin crea se by an additional 5 for each slot level above 2nd.
Wind;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;Stage ConditionStage Condition1 Calm2 Moderate wind3 Strong wind4 Gale5 Storm
BestowCurse;3;necromancy;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You tou ch a creatu re, and that crea tu re m ust su cceedYou tou ch a creatu re, and that crea tu re m ust su cceedon a W isdom saving th row or becom e cu r sed for theduration of the spell. W h en you cast this spell, ch oosethe nature of the cu r se from the followin g options:• C h oose on e ability score. W h ile cu rsed, the targethas disadvantage on ability ch eck s and saving th rowsm ade with that ability score.• W h ile cu rsed, the target has disadvantage on attackrolls against you.• W h ile cu rsed, the target m ust m ake a W isdom sav­in g th row at the start of ea ch of its turns. If it fails, itwa stes its action that turn doin g nothing.• W h ile the target is cu rsed, your attacks and spellsdeal an extra 1d8 n ecrotic da m age to the target.A  rem ove curse spell en ds this effect. At the D M soption, you m ay ch oose an alternative cu rse effect, butit sh ou ld be n o m ore powerfu l than th ose describedabove. Th e DM h as final say on su ch a cu r ses effect.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell u sin g a spellslot of 4th level or higher, the duration is concentration ,up to 10 m inutes. If you u se a spell slot of 5th level orhigher, the duration is 8 hours. If you u se a spell slot of7th level or higher, the duration is 24 h ours. If you u sea 9th level spell slot, the spell lasts until it is dispelled.U sin g a spell slot of 5th level or h igh er grants a durationthat doesn t requ ire concentration .
Identify;1;divination;True;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;a pearl worth at least 100 gp andan owl feather;instant;-;You ch oose on e object that you m ust tou ch th roughou tYou ch oose on e object that you m ust tou ch th roughou tthe ca stin g of the spell. If it is a m a gic item or som eoth er m a gic-im bu ed object, you learn its propertiesand h ow to u se them , wh eth er it requ ires attunem entto use, and h ow m a n y ch a rges it has, if any. You learnwh eth er any spells are affecting the item and what theyare. If the item w a s created by a spell, you learn wh ichspell crea ted it.If you in stead tou ch a crea tu re th roughou t the casting,you learn what spells, if any, are currently affecting it.
WaterWalk;3;transmutation;True;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a piece of cork;1 hour;-;Th is spell grants the ability to m ove a cr oss any liquidTh is spell grants the ability to m ove a cr oss any liquidsu rfa cesu ch as water, acid, m ud, snow, qu icksand,or lavaas if it were h a rm less solid grou nd (creatu rescrossin g m olten lava ca n still take da m age from theheat). Up to ten willin g crea tu res you can see withinran ge gain this ability for the duration.If you target a creatu re su bm erged in a liquid, thespell ca rries the target to the su rfa ce of the liquid at arate of 60 feet per round.
Fear;3;illusion;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a white feather or theh eart of a hen;1 minutes;-;You project a phantasm al im age of a crea tu res worstYou project a phantasm al im age of a crea tu res worstfears. E a ch creature in a 30-foot con e m ust su cceed ona W isdom saving th row or drop whatever it is h oldin gand becom e frightened for the duration.W h ile frigh ten ed by this spell, a creatu re m ust takethe Dash action and m ove away from you by the safestavailable route on each of its turns, u n less there isn owh ere to m ove. If the creatu re en ds its turn in alocation wh ere it doesn t have line of sight to you,the creatu re can m ake a W isdom saving throw. On asu ccessfu l save, the spell en ds for that creature.
ProduceFlame;0;Conjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;A flickering flam e appears in you r hand. Th e flam eA flickering flam e appears in you r hand. Th e flam erem ain s th ere for the duration and h arm s neither youn or your equipm ent. Th e flam e sh eds bright light in a10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.Th e spell en ds if you dism iss it as an action or if youcast it again.You can also attack with the flam e, although doin g soen ds the spell. W h en you cast this spell, or as an actionon a later turn, you ca n hurl the flam e at a creatu rewithin 30 feet of you. Make a ran ged spell attack. On ahit, the target takes 1d8 fire dam age.Th is spells da m age in crea ses by 1d8 when you reach5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
LeomundsTinyHut;3;evocation;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;a sm all crystal bead;8 hours;-;A 10-foot-radius im m obile dom e of force sprin gs intoA 10-foot-radius im m obile dom e of force sprin gs intoexisten ce arou n d and above you an d rem ain s stationaryfor the duration. Th e spell ends if you leave its area.Nine creatu res of Medium size or sm aller ca n fit insidethe dom e with you. Th e spell fails if its area in cludes alarger creatu re or m ore than nine creatures. Creaturesand objects within the dom e w h en you cast this spellca n m ove through it freely. All oth er crea tu res andobjects are ba rred from pa ssin g th rough it. Spells andoth er m a gica l effects ca n t extend th rough the dom e orbe cast through it. Th e atm osph ere inside the spa ce iscom forta ble and dry, rega rdless of the weath er outside.Until the spell ends, you ca n com m a n d the interior tobecom e dim ly lit or dark. Th e dom e is opaqu e from theoutside, of any color you ch oose, but it is transparentfrom the inside.
ConjureAnimals;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You su m m on fey spirits that take the form of bea sts andYou su m m on fey spirits that take the form of bea sts andappear in u n occu pied spa ces that you can see withinrange. C h oose on e of the followin g option s for whatappears:• One bea st of ch a llen ge rating 2 or lower• Two bea sts of ch a llen ge rating 1 or lower• F ou r bea sts of ch a llen ge rating 1/2 or lower• Eight bea sts of ch a llen ge rating 1/4 or lowerE ach bea st is also con sidered fey, and it disappea rswh en it drops to 0 hit poin ts or wh en the spell ends.Th e su m m on ed crea tu res are friendly to you and yourcom pa n ion s. Roll initiative for the su m m on ed creatu resas a group, wh ich has its own turns. Th ey obey anyverbal com m a n ds that you issu e to them (no actionrequ ired by you). If you don t issu e any com m a n ds tothem , they defen d th em selves from h ostile creatu res,but oth erwise take n o actions.Th e DM h as the crea tu res statistics.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u singcertain h igher level spell slots, you ch oose on e of thesu m m on in g option s above, and m ore crea tu res appear:twice as m any with a 5th level slot, th ree tim es as m anywith a 7th level slot, and fou r tim es as m any with a9th level slot.
Moonbeam;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;several seed s of any m oon seedplant and a piece of opa lescen t feldspar;1 minutes;-;A silvery bea m of pale light sh in es down in a 5-foot-A silvery bea m of pale light sh in es down in a 5-foot-radius, 40-foot-h igh cylinder cen tered on a poin t withinrange. Until the spell ends, dim light fills the cylinder.W h en a creatu re enters the spells area for the firsttim e on a turn or starts its turn there, it is en gu lfedin gh ostly flam es that ca u se sea rin g pain, and it m ustm ake a Constitution saving throw. It takes 2d10 radiantda m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m u ch da m age on asu ccessfu l one.A sh a pech a n ger m a kes its saving th row withdisadvantage. If it fails, it a lso instantly reverts to itsorigin al form and ca n t assu m e a different form until itleaves the spells light.On each of your turns after you cast this spell, you canu se an action to m ove the bea m 60 feet in any direction .A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1dlO for each slot level above 2nd.
Resistance;0;Abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a m iniature cloak;1 minutes;-;You touch on e willin g creature. On ce before the spellYou touch on e willin g creature. On ce before the spellends, the target ca n roll a d4 and add the num berrolled to on e saving th row of its ch oice. It can rollthe die before or after m a kin g the saving throw. Th espell then ends.
Thunderwave;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;A wave of th u n derou s for ce sw eeps out from you. E achA wave of th u n derou s for ce sw eeps out from you. E achcrea tu re in a 15-foot cu be originatin g from you m ustm ake a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, acreatu re takes 2d8 thunder da m age and is pu sh ed 10feet away from you. On a su ccessfu l save, the creaturetakes h a lf as m u ch da m age and isnt pushed.In addition, u n secu red objects that are com pletelywithin the area of effect are autom atically pu sh ed 10 feetaway from you by the spells effect, and the spell em its ath u nderou s boom audible out to 300 feet.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for each slot level above 1st.
Enthrall;2;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You weave a distractin g strin g of words, cau sin gYou weave a distractin g strin g of words, cau sin gcrea tu res of you r ch oice that you ca n see within rangeand that can h ear you to m ake a W isdom savingthrow. An y crea tu re that ca n t be ch a rm ed su cceedson this saving th row autom atically, and if you or yourcom pa n ion s are fighting a creatu re, it has advantage onthe save. On a failed save, the target has disadvantageon W isdom (P erception ) ch eck s m a de to perceive anycreatu re oth er than you until the spell en ds or until thetarget ca n n o lon ger h ear you. Th e spell en ds if you arein capacitated or ca n n o lon ger speak.
FreedomofMovement;4;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a leather strap, bou n d arou nd thearm or a sim ilar appendage;1 hour;-;You tou ch a willin g creatu re. F or the duration, theYou tou ch a willin g creatu re. F or the duration, thetargets m ovem en t is u n a ffected by difficult terrain, andspells and oth er m a gica l effects ca n neither redu cethe targets sp eed n or ca u se the target to be paralyzedor restrained.Th e target ca n a lso spen d 5 feet of m ovem en t toautom atically esca pe from n on m a gica l restraints, suchas m a n a cles or a crea tu re that has it grappled. Finally,bein g underwater im poses n o pen alties on the targetsm ovem en t or attacks.
MagicWeapon;2;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You touch a n on m a gica l wea pon . Until the spell ends,You touch a n on m a gica l wea pon . Until the spell ends,that wea pon becom es a m a gic wea pon with a +1 bon u sto attack rolls and da m age rolls.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the bon u s in crea ses to+2. W h en you u se a spell slot of 6th level or higher, thebon u s in crea ses to +3.
TimeStop;9;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;instant;-;You briefly stop the flow of tim e for everyone butYou briefly stop the flow of tim e for everyone butyou rself. N o tim e pa sses for oth er creatu res, wh ile youtake 1d4 + 1 turns in a row, du rin g wh ich you ca n u seaction s and m ove as norm al.Th is spell en ds if on e of the action s you u se duringthis period, or any effects that you create du ring thisperiod, affects a creatu re oth er than you or an objectbein g worn or ca rried by som eon e oth er than you. Inaddition, the spell en ds if you m ove to a pla ce m ore than1,000 feet from the loca tion wh ere you cast it.
ShieldofFaith;1;abjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a sm all parch m en t with a bit ofholy text written on it;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];A sh im m erin g field appears and su rrou n ds a creatureA sh im m erin g field appears and su rrou n ds a creatureof you r ch oice within range, granting it a +2 bon u s to ACfor the duration.
CommunewithNature;5;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;You briefly becom e on e with nature and gain kn owledgeYou briefly becom e on e with nature and gain kn owledgeof the su rrou n din g territory. In the ou tdoors, the spellgives you kn owledge of the land within 3 m iles of you.In ca ves and oth er natural u n dergrou n d settings, theradius is lim ited to 300 feet. Th e spell d oesn t fu n ctionwh ere nature h as been repla ced by con stru ction , su chas in du n geon s and towns.You instantly gain kn owledge of up to th ree facts ofyou r ch oice about any of the followin g su bjects as theyrelate to the area:• terrain and bod ies of water• prevalent plants, m inerals, anim als, or peoples• powerfu l celestials, fey, fiends, elem entals, or undead• in flu ence from oth er planes of existen ce• bu ildin gsF or exam ple, you cou ld determ ine the loca tion ofpowerfu l undead in the area, the location of m ajorsou r ces of safe drin kin g water, and the location of anyn earby town s.
HungerofHadar;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;a pickled octopu s tentacle;1 minutes;-;You open a gateway to the dark between the stars, aYou open a gateway to the dark between the stars, aregion in fested with u n kn own h orrors. A 20-foot-radiu ssph ere of bla ck n ess and bitter cold a ppears, cen teredon a point with ran ge and lasting for the duration. Th isvoid is filled with a ca coph on y of soft w h ispers andslurpin g n oises that ca n be h eard up to 30 feet away. Nolight, m a gica l or oth erwise, ca n illum inate the area, andcrea tu res fully within the area are blinded.Th e void crea tes a warp in the fabric of space, and thearea is difficult terrain. An y crea tu re that starts its turnin the area takes 2d6 cold dam age. An y crea tu re thaten ds its turn in the area m ust su cceed on a Dexteritysaving th row or take 2d6 acid da m age as milky,oth erworldly tentacles rub against it.
GuidingBolt;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;A flash of light strea ks toward a crea tu re of you r ch oiceA flash of light strea ks toward a crea tu re of you r ch oicewithin range. Make a ranged spell attack against thetarget. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 radiant dam age,and the next attack roll m a de against this target beforethe end of your next turn h as advantage, thanks to them ystical dim light glittering on the target until then.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sing aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
StoneShape;4;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;soft clay, wh ich m ust be workedinto roughly the desired sh ape of the stone object;instant;-;You touch a stone object of Mediu m size or sm aller orYou touch a stone object of Mediu m size or sm aller ora section of stone n o m ore than 5 feet in any dim en sionand form it into any sh ape that suits your pu rpose. So,for exam ple, you cou ld sh ape a large r ock into a weapon ,idol, or coffer, or m ake a sm all pa ssa ge th rough a wall,as lon g as the wall is less than 5 feet thick. You cou lda lso sh ape a stone door or its fram e to sea l the doorshut. Th e object you create ca n have up to two h in gesand a latch, but finer m ech a n ica l detail isn t possible.
HallucinatoryTerrain;4;illusion;-;10 minutes;-;300 feet;V,S,M;a stone, a twig, and a bitof green plant;24 hours;-;You m ake natural terrain in a 150-foot cu be in rangeYou m ake natural terrain in a 150-foot cu be in rangelook, sou n d, and sm ell like som e oth er sort of naturalterrain. Thus, open fields or a road ca n be m a de toresem ble a swam p, hill, crevasse, or som e oth er difficultor im passable terrain. A pon d ca n be m ade to seemlike a gra ssy m eadow, a precipice like a gentle slope,or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and sm ooth road.M an ufactured stru ctu res, equipm ent, and creatu reswithin the area arent ch a n ged in appearan ce.Th e tactile ch a ra cteristics of the terrain areu nchan ged, so crea tu res en tering the area are likely tosee th rough the illusion. If the differen ce isn t obviou sby touch, a crea tu re carefully exa m in in g the illusion canattempt an In telligen ce (Investigation) ch eck againstyour spell save DC to disbelieve it. A creatu re wh odiscern s the illusion for what it is, sees it as a vagueim age su perim posed on the terrain.
FindTraps;2;divination;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You sen se the pr esen ce of any trap within ran ge thatYou sen se the pr esen ce of any trap within ran ge thatis within line of sight. A trap, for the pu rpose of thisspell, in clu des anything that w ou ld inflict a su dden oru n expected effect you con sider h arm fu l or undesirable,wh ich w a s specifica lly intended as su ch by its creator.Thus, the spell w ou ld sen se an area affected by thealarm spell, a  glyph of warding, or a m ech a n ica l pit trap,but it w ou ld not reveal a natural w ea k n ess in the floor,an u nstable ceilin g, or a h idden sinkh ole.Th is spell m erely reveals that a trap is present. Youdon t learn the location of each trap, but you do learn thegeneral nature of the da n ger posed by a trap you sen se.
PrayerofHealing;2;evocation;-;10 minutes;-;30 feet;V;-;instant;-;Up to six crea tu res of you r ch oice that you ca n seeUp to six crea tu res of you r ch oice that you ca n seewithin ran ge ea ch regain hit poin ts equal to 2d8 + yourspellca stin g ability m odifier. Th is spell has n o effect onu n dea d or con stru cts.At Higher Levels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the h ealin g in crea ses by1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Mislead;5;illusion;-;1 action;-;self;S;-;1 hour;-;You becom e invisible at the sa m e tim e that an illusoryYou becom e invisible at the sa m e tim e that an illusorydou ble of you appears wh ere you are standing. Th edou ble lasts for the duration, but the invisibility en ds ifyou attack or cast a spell.You can u se you r action to m ove you r illu sory dou bleup to twice you r speed and m ake it gesture, speak, andbeh ave in whatever way you ch oose.You ca n see th rough its eyes and h ear th rou gh its earsas if you w ere located wh ere it is. On ea ch of you r turnsas a bon u s action, you ca n switch from u sin g its sen sesto u sing you r own, or ba ck again. W h ile you are u sin g itssen ses, you are blin ded and dea fen ed in regard to yourown su rrou n din gs.
Command;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;1 round;-;You spea k a on e-word com m a n d to a creatu re you canYou spea k a on e-word com m a n d to a creatu re you cansee within range. Th e target m ust su cceed on a W isdomsaving th row or follow the com m a n d on its next turn.Th e spell has n o effect if the target is undead, if itd oesn t understan d you r language, or if your com m a n dis directly h arm fu l to it.S om e typical com m a n ds and their effects follow. Youm ight issu e a com m a n d oth er than on e descr ibed here.If you do so, the DM determ in es h ow the target behaves.If the target ca n t follow you r com m a n d, the spell ends.Approach. Th e target m oves toward you by thesh ortest an d m ost direct route, en din g its turn if itm oves within 5 feet of you.Drop. Th e target drops whatever it is h oldin g and thenen ds its turn.Flee. Th e target spen ds its turn m ovin g away fromyou by the fastest available m eans.Grovel. Th e target falls pron e and then en ds its turn.Halt. Th e target d oesn t m ove and takes n o actions.A flying creatu re stays aloft, provided that it is able todo so. If it m ust m ove to stay aloft, it flies the m inim umdista n ce n eeded to rem ain in the air.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell usinga spell slot of 2n d level or higher, you can affect on eadditional creatu re for ea ch slot level above 1st. Thecrea tu res m ust be within 30 feet of each oth er whenyou target them .
WitchBolt;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a twig from a tree that h as beenstru ck by lightning;1 minutes;-;A bea m of crackling, blue en ergy la n ces out towardA bea m of crackling, blue en ergy la n ces out towarda creatu re with in range, form in g a su stained arc ofligh tn in g between you and the target. Make a ran gedspell attack against that creatu re. On a hit, the targettakes 1d12 lightning dam age, and on ea ch of you r turnsfor the duration, you ca n u se your action to deal 1d12lightning da m age to the target autom atically. Th e spellen ds if you u se you r action to do anything else. Th e spellalso en ds if the target is ever ou tside the spells ran ge orif it has total cover from you.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial da m agein crea ses by 1d12 for ea ch slot level above 1st.
AuraofLife;4;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];Life-preservin g en ergy radiates from you in an aura withLife-preservin g en ergy radiates from you in an aura witha 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura m oveswith you, cen tered on you. E a ch n on h ostile creatu rein the aura (in cluding you) has resista n ce to n ecroticdam age, and its hit point m a xim u m can t be redu ced. Inaddition, a n on h ostile, living creatu re rega in s 1 hit pointwh en it starts its turn in the aura with 0 hit points.
DetectEvilandGood;1;divination;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];F or the duration, you k n ow if there is an aberration,F or the duration, you k n ow if there is an aberration,celestial, elem ental, fey, fiend, or undead with in 30feet of you, as well as wh ere the creatu re is located.Sim ilarly, you kn ow if there is a pla ce or object within30 feet of you that has been m a gica lly con secra tedor desecrated.Th e spell can penetrate m ost barriers, but it is block edby 1 foot of stone, 1 in ch of com m on m etal, a thin sheetof lead, or 3 feet of w ood or dirt.
MajorImage;3;illusion;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a bit of fleece;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You create the im age of an object, a creature, or som eYou create the im age of an object, a creature, or som eoth er visible ph en om en on that is n o larger than a20-foot cu be. Th e im age a ppears at a spot that youca n see within ran ge and lasts for the duration. Itseem s com pletely real, in cluding sou n ds, sm ells, andtem peratu re appropriate to the thing depicted. Youca n t create sufficient heat or cold to ca u se dam age, asou n d lou d en ou gh to deal thunder da m age or dea fen acreature, or a sm ell that m ight sicken a creatu re (like atroglodytes stench).As lon g as you are within ran ge of the illusion, youcan u se you r action to ca u se the im age to m ove toany oth er spot with in range. As the im age ch a n geslocation, you can alter its appea ra n ce so that itsm ovem en ts appear natural for the im age. F or exam ple,if you create an im a ge of a creatu re and m ove it, youca n alter the im age so that it appears to be walking.Sim ilarly, you ca n ca u se the illusion to m ake differentsou n ds at different tim es, even m a kin g it ca rry on aconversation, for exam ple.P h ysica l interaction with the im age reveals it to be anillusion, beca u se things ca n pa ss th rough it. A creatu rethat u ses its action to exam in e the im age ca n determ inethat it is an illusion with a su ccessfu l Intelligence(Investigation) ch eck against your spell save DC. If acreatu re discern s the illusion for what it is, the creatu recan see th rough the im age, and its oth er sen soryqualities becom e faint to the creature.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 6th level or higher, the spell lasts untildispelled, without requ irin g your concentration .
WallofStone;5;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a sm all block of granite;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];A n on m a gica l wall of solid stone sprin gs into existen ceA n on m a gica l wall of solid stone sprin gs into existen ceat a poin t you ch oose with in range. Th e wall is 6 in ch esth ick and is com p osed of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels.E a ch panel m ust be con tigu ou s with at least on e otherpanel. Alternatively, you ca n crea te 10-foot-by-20-footpanels that are on ly 3 in ch es thick.If the wall cuts th rough a crea tu res spa ce wh en itappears, the creatu re is pu sh ed to on e side of the wall(you r ch oice). If a crea tu re w ou ld be su rrou n ded on allsides by the wall (or the wall and an oth er solid surface),that crea tu re ca n m ake a Dexterity saving throw. On asu ccess, it ca n u se its reaction to m ove up to its speed sothat it is n o lon ger en closed by the wall.Th e wall ca n have any sh ape you desire, th ou gh itca n t occu py the sa m e spa ce as a creatu re or object.The wall d oesn t n eed to be vertical or rest on any firmfoundation. It m ust, h owever, m erge with and be solidlysu pported by existin g stone. Thus, you ca n u se this spellto bridge a ch a sm or crea te a ramp.If you create a span greater than 20 feet in length, youm ust halve the size of ea ch panel to create su pports.You ca n cru dely sh ape the wall to create cren ellation s,battlem ents, and so on.Th e wall is an object m a de of ston e that ca n beda m aged and thus breach ed. E a ch panel has AC 15 and30 hit poin ts per inch of th ickn ess. Redu cin g a panelto 0 hit poin ts destroys it and m ight ca u se con n ectedpanels to colla pse at the DM s discretion.If you m aintain your con cen tra tion on this spell forits wh ole duration, the wall becom es perm an en t andca n t be dispelled. Oth erwise, the wall disappea rs wh enthe spell ends.
PlanarBinding;5;abjuration;-;1 hour;-; 60 feet;-;-;-;-;Components:  V, S, M (a jew el worth at least 1,000 gp,Components:  V, S, M (a jew el worth at least 1,000 gp,wh ich the spell con su m es)Duration:  24 hoursWith this spell, you attempt to bind a celestial, anelem ental, a fey, or a fiend to your service. Th e creatu rem ust be within ran ge for the entire ca stin g of the spell.(Typically, the creatu re is first su m m on ed into the centerof an inverted  m agic circle in order to keep it trappedwh ile this spell is cast.) At the com pletion of the casting,the target m ust m ake a Ch arism a saving throw. On afailed save, it is bou n d to serve you for the duration. Ifthe crea tu re w a s su m m on ed or crea ted by another spell,that spells duration is exten ded to m atch the durationof this spell.A bou n d creature m ust follow your in stru ction s to thebest of its ability. You m ight com m a n d the creatu re toa ccom pa n y you on an adventure, to guard a location, orto deliver a m essa ge. Th e creatu re obeys the letter ofyou r in stru ction s, but if the creatu re is h ostile to you, itstrives to twist your w ords to achieve its own objectives.If the crea tu re ca rries out your in stru ction s com pletelybefore the spell ends, it travels to you to report this factif you are on the sa m e plane of existen ce. If you are on adifferent plane of existen ce, it retu rn s to the pla ce wh ereyou bou n d it and rem ain s there until the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of a h igh er level, the duration in crea ses to 10days with a 6th level slot, to 30 days with a 7th level slot,to 180 days with an 8th level slot, and to a year and aday with a 9th level spell slot.
MagicMouth;2;illusion;True;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;a sm all bit of h on eycom band ja de dust worth at least 10 gp, wh ich thespell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You im plant a m essa ge within an object in range, aYou im plant a m essa ge within an object in range, am essa ge that is uttered wh en a trigger con dition is met.C h oose an object that you ca n see and that isn t bein gworn or ca rried by an oth er creatu re. Th en spea k them essa ge, wh ich m ust be 25 words or less, th ou gh itcan be delivered over as lon g as 10 m inutes. Finally,determ ine the circu m sta n ce that will trigger the spell todeliver your m essa ge.W h en that circu m sta n ce occu rs, a m a gica l m outhappears on the object and recites the m essa ge in yourvoice and at the sa m e volum e you spoke. If the objectyou ch ose has a m ou th or som eth in g that look s like am ou th (for exam ple, the m outh of a statue), the m a gica lm outh appears there so that the w ords appear to com efrom the objects m outh. Wh en you cast this spell, youca n have the spell end after it delivers its m essa ge, orit ca n rem ain and repeat its m essa ge wh en ever thetrigger occu rs.Th e triggerin g circu m sta n ce ca n be as general or asdetailed as you like, th ou gh it m ust be ba sed on visualor audible con dition s that occu r within 30 feet of theobject. For exam ple, you cou ld in stru ct the m outh tospea k wh en any creatu re m oves within 30 feet of theobject or wh en a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
Hallow;5;evocation;-;24 hours;-;touch;V,S,M;herbs, oils, and in cen se worth atleast 1,000 gp, wh ich the spell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You tou ch a poin t and in fu se an area arou nd it with holyYou tou ch a poin t and in fu se an area arou nd it with holy(or unholy) power. The area can have a radius up to 60feet, and the spell fails if the radius in cludes an areaalready u nder the effect a  hallow spell. Th e affected areais su bject to the followin g effects.First, celestials, elem entals, fey, fiends, and undeadca n t enter the area, n or ca n su ch crea tu res charm ,frighten, or p ossess crea tu res within it. An y creatu rech a rm ed, frightened, or p ossessed by su ch a creatu reis n o lon ger ch a rm ed, frightened, or possessed uponen tering the area. You ca n exclu de on e or m ore of th osetypes of crea tu res from this effect.Secon d, you ca n bind an extra effect to the area.C h oose the effect from the followin g list, or ch oose aneffect offered by the DM. S om e of th ese effects apply tocrea tu res in the area you ca n design ate wh eth er theeffect applies to all crea tu res, crea tu res that follow aspecific deity or leader, or crea tu res of a specific sort,su ch as ores or trolls. W h en a creatu re that wou ld beaffected enters the spells area for the first tim e on aturn or starts its turn there, it can m ake a Ch arism asaving throw. On a su ccess, the creatu re ign ores theextra effect until it leaves the area.Courage. Affected crea tu res ca n t be frightenedwh ile in the area.Darkness. Darkn ess fills the area. N orm al light,as well as m a gica l light crea ted by spells of a lowerlevel than the slot you u sed to cast this spell, ca n tillum inate the area.Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical da rkn esscrea ted by spells of a lower level than the slot you u sedto cast this spell ca n t extin gu ish the light.Energy Protection. Affected crea tu res in the areahave resista n ce to on e da m age type of your ch oice,except for bludgeon ing, piercing, or slashing.Energy Vulnerability. Affected crea tu res in the areahave vulnerability to on e da m age type of your ch oice,except for bludgeon ing, piercing, or slashing.Everlasting Rest. Dea d bod ies interred in the areaca n t be tu rned into undead.Extradimensional Interference. Affected crea tu resca n t m ove or travel u sing teleportation or byextradim en sion al or interplanar m eans.Fear. Affected crea tu res are frightenedwh ile in the area.Silence. N o sou n d ca n em anate from within the area,an d n o sou n d ca n reach into it.Tongues. Affected crea tu res ca n com m u n ica te withany oth er crea tu re in the area, even if they don t sh are acom m on language.
PlanarAlly;6;conjuration;-;10 minutes;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You beseech an oth erworldly entity for aid. Th e bein gYou beseech an oth erworldly entity for aid. Th e bein gm ust be kn own to you: a god, a prim ordial, a dem onprin ce, or som e oth er bein g of cosm ic power. That entitysen ds a celestial, an elem ental, or a fiend loyal to it toaid you, m a kin g the crea tu re appear in an u n occu piedspa ce with in range. If you k n ow a specific crea tu resnam e, you ca n spea k that n am e w h en you cast this spellto requ est that creatu re, th ou gh you m ight get a differentcrea tu re anyway (DM s choice).W h en the creatu re appears, it is u nder n o com pu lsionto beh ave in any particu la r way. You ca n ask thecrea tu re to perform a ser vice in exch a n ge for payment,but it isn t obliged to do so. Th e requ ested task cou ldran ge from sim ple (fly u s a cr oss the chasm , or help usfight a battle) to com plex (spy on ou r en em ies, or protectus du ring ou r foray into the du ngeon ). You m ust beable to com m u n ica te with the creatu re to bargain forits services.Paym ent ca n take a variety of form s. A celestia l m ightrequ ire a sizable donation of gold or m a gic item s toan allied tem ple, wh ile a fiend m ight dem an d a livingsa crifice or a gift of treasure. S om e crea tu res m ightexch a n ge their service for a quest u ndertaken by you.As a rule of thum b, a task that ca n be m ea su red inm inutes requ ires a paym ent worth 100 gp per m inute. Atask m ea su red in h ou rs requ ires 1,000 gp per hour. An da task m ea su red in days (up to 10 days) requ ires 10,000gp per day. Th e DM ca n adjust th ese paym ents ba sed onthe circu m sta n ces under wh ich you cast the spell. If thetask is align ed with the crea tu res eth os, the paym entm ight be halved or even waived. N on h a za rdou s taskstypically requ ire on ly h a lf the su ggested paym ent, whileespecia lly da n gerou s tasks m ight requ ire a greater gift.Creatures rarely a ccept ta sks that seem suicidal.After the creatu re com pletes the task, or wh en theagreed-u pon duration of service expires, the creatu reretu rn s to its h om e plane after reportin g ba ck to you,if appropriate to the task and if possible. If you areu nable to agree on a price for the crea tu res service, thecreatu re im m ediately retu rn s to its h om e plane.A crea tu re enlisted to join your grou p cou n ts asa m em ber of it, receivin g a full sh are of experien cepoin ts awarded.
Message;0;Transmutation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;a sh ort piece of copper wire;1 round;-;You point your finger toward a crea tu re with in rangeYou point your finger toward a crea tu re with in rangeand w h isper a m essa ge. Th e target (and on ly the target)h ea rs the m essa ge and ca n reply in a wh isper that onlyyou ca n hear.You ca n cast this spell th rough solid objects if youare fam iliar with the target and k n ow it is beyon dthe barrier. M agica l silen ce. 1 foot of stone, 1 inch ofcom m on m etal, a thin sh eet of lead, or 3 feet of w oodblock s the spell. Th e spell doesn t have to follow astraight lin e and ca n travel freely arou nd corn ers orth rough open in gs.
BladeWard;0;Abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 round;-;You exten d you r hand and trace a sigil of wa rdin g in theYou exten d you r hand and trace a sigil of wa rdin g in theair. Until the en d of you r next turn, you have resistan ceagainst bludgeon ing, piercing, and slash in g dam agedealt by wea pon attacks.
HolyAura;8;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a tiny reliquary worth at least1,000 gp con tain in g a sa cred relic, su ch as a scrap ofcloth from a sa in ts robe or a piece of parch m en t froma religiou s text;1 minutes;-;Divine light w a sh es out from you and coa lescesDivine light w a sh es out from you and coa lescesin a soft radia n ce in a 30-foot radius arou nd you.Creatures of you r ch oice in that radius wh en you castthis spell sh ed dim light in a 5-foot radius and haveadvantage on all saving th rows, and oth er crea tu reshave disadvantage on attack rolls against th em untilthe spell ends. In addition, wh en a fiend or an undeadhits an affected creatu re with a m elee attack, the auraflashes with brilliant light. Th e attacker m ust su cceedon a Constitution saving th row or be blin ded untilthe spell ends.
ArcaneLock;2;abjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;gold dust w orth at least 25 gp,wh ich the spell con su m es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You tou ch a closed door, win dow, gate, chest, or oth erYou tou ch a closed door, win dow, gate, chest, or oth erentryway, and it becom es lock ed for the duration. Youand the crea tu res you design ate wh en you cast thisspell ca n open the object norm ally. You can a lso set apa ssw or d that, wh en spoken within 5 feet of the object,su ppr esses this spell for 1 minute. Oth erwise, it isim passable until it is broken or the spell is dispelled orsu ppressed. Ca stin g  knock on the object su ppressesarcane lock for 10 m inutes.W h ile affected by this spell, the object is m ore difficultto brea k or for ce open  the DC to brea k it or pick anylock s on it in cr ea ses by 10.
CompelledDuel;1;enchantment;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;You attem pt to com pel a creatu re into a duel. OneYou attem pt to com pel a creatu re into a duel. Onecreatu re that you ca n see within range m ust m ake aW isdom saving throw. On a failed save, the crea tu re isdrawn to you, com pelled by you r divine dem and. F orthe duration, it h as disadvantage on attack rolls againstcrea tu res oth er than you, and m ust m a ke a W isdomsaving th row ea ch tim e it attem pts to m ove to a spa cethat is m ore than 30 feet away from you if it su cceedson this saving throw, this spell doesn t restrict thetargets m ovem en t for that turn.Th e spell en ds if you attack any oth er creature, if youcast a spell that targets a h ostile creatu re oth er than thetarget, if a creatu re friendly to you da m a ges the target orcasts a h arm fu l spell on it, or if you end you r turn m orethan 30 feet away from the target.
SacredFlame;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;F la m e-like radia n ce descen ds on a creatu re that youF la m e-like radia n ce descen ds on a creatu re that youca n see within range. Th e target m ust su cceed on aDexterity saving th row or take 1d8 radiant dam age. Thetarget gains n o benefit from cover for this saving throw.Th e spells da m age in crea ses by 1d8 wh en you reach5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
DisguiseSelf;1;illusion;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You m ake you rselfin cluding you r cloth in g, armor,You m ake you rselfin cluding you r cloth in g, armor,w ea pon s, and oth er belon gin gs on your per son lookdifferent until the spell en ds or until you u se you r actionto dism iss it. You can seem 1 foot sh orter or taller andcan appear thin, fat, or in between . You ca n t ch a n geyou r body type, so you m ust adopt a form that has thesa m e ba sic arrangem ent of lim bs. Oth erwise, the extentof the illusion is up to you.Th e ch a n ges wrou gh t by this spell fail to h old up tophysical in spection . For exam ple, if you u se this spellto add a hat to you r outfit, objects pa ss th rough the hat,and anyone w h o tou ch es it w ou ld feel n oth ing or wou ldfeel your head and hair. If you u se this spell to appearthinner than you are, the hand of som eon e wh o reach esout to touch you wou ld bu m p into you wh ile it wasseem in gly still in midair.To discern that you are disgu ised, a crea tu re ca n u seits action to in spect you r a ppea ra n ce and m ust su cceedon an In telligen ce (Investigation) ch eck against yourspell save DC.
FindthePath;6;divination;-;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;a set of divinatory toolssu chas bon es, ivory sticks, cards, teeth, or ca rved ru n esworth 100 gp and an object from the loca tion youwish to find;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 1 day'];Th is spell allows you to find the shortest, m ost directTh is spell allows you to find the shortest, m ost directphysical route to a specific fixed location that you arefam iliar with on the sa m e plane of existen ce. If youn am e a destin ation on an oth er plane of existen ce, adestination that m oves (such as a m obile fortress), or adestin ation that isn t specific (such as “a green dragon slair”), the spell fails.F or the duration, as lon g as you are on the sa m e planeof existen ce as the destination, you k n ow h ow far it isand in what direction it lies. W h ile you are travelingthere, wh en ever you are presen ted with a ch oice ofpaths alon g the way, you autom atically determ ine whichpath is the sh ortest and m ost direct route (but notn ecessa rily the sa fest route) to the destination.
InsectPlague;5;conjuration;-;1 action;-;300 feet;V,S,M;a few grains of sugar, som ekern els of grain, and a sm ea r of fat;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];Swa rm in g, biting locu sts fill a 20-foot-radiu s sphereSwa rm in g, biting locu sts fill a 20-foot-radiu s spherecen tered on a poin t you ch oose within range. Th e sph eresprea ds arou nd corn ers. Th e sph ere rem ain s for theduration, and its area is lightly obscu red. Th e sph eresarea is difficult terrain.W h en the area appears, each creatu re in it mustm ake a Constitution saving throw. A crea tu re takes4 d10 piercin g da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m uchda m age on a su ccessfu l one. A crea tu re m ust also m akethis saving th row wh en it enters the spells area for thefirst tim e on a turn or en ds its turn there.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by1d10 for ea ch slot level above 5th.
SearingSmite;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a m elee wea ponTh e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a m elee wea ponattack du ring the spells duration, your w ea pon flareswith white-hot intensity, and the attack deals an extra1d6 fire da m age to the target and ca u ses the target toignite in flam es. At the start of each of its turns untilthe spell ends, the target m ust m ake a Constitutionsaving throw. On a failed save, it takes 1d6 fire dam age.On a su ccessfu l save, the spell ends. If the target or acreatu re within 5 feet of it u ses an action to put out theflam es, or if som e oth er effect dou ses the fla m es (suchas the target bein g su bm erged in water), the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial extra da m agedealt by the attack in crea ses by 1d6 for each slotlevel above 1st.
ShockingGrasp;0;Evocation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;Lightning sprin gs from you r h and to deliver a sh ock toLightning sprin gs from you r h and to deliver a sh ock toa creatu re you try to touch. Make a m elee spell attackagainst the target. You have advantage on the attack rollif the target is wearin g arm or m ade of m etal. On a hit,the target takes 1d8 lightning dam age, and it ca n t takereaction s until the start of its next turn.Th e spells dam age in crea ses by 1d8 wh en you reach5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
MistyStep;2;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;instant;-;Briefly su rrou n ded by silvery m ist, you teleport up to 30Briefly su rrou n ded by silvery m ist, you teleport up to 30feet to an u n occu pied spa ce that you ca n see.
Revivify;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;dia m on ds worth 300 gp, whichthe spell con su m es;instant;-;You tou ch a crea tu re that has died within the lastYou tou ch a crea tu re that has died within the lastm inute. That creatu re retu rn s to life with 1 hit point.Th is spell ca n t return to life a crea tu re that has died ofold age, n or can it restore any m issin g body parts.
SleetStorm;3;conjuration;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of dust and a fewdrops of water;1 minutes;-;Until the spell ends, freezin g rain and sleet fall in aUntil the spell ends, freezin g rain and sleet fall in a20-foot-tall cylinder with a 40-foot radius cen tered ona point you ch oose within range. Th e area is heavilyobscu red, and exposed flam es in the area are dou sed.Th e grou n d in the area is cover ed with slick ice,m a kin g it difficult terrain. W h en a crea tu re enters thespells area for the first tim e on a turn or starts its turnthere, it m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. On a failedsave, it falls prone.If a creatu re is con cen tra tin g in the spells area, thecreatu re m ust m ake a su ccessfu l Constitution savingth row against your spell save DC or lose con cen tra tion .
VampiricTouch;3;necromancy;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Th e touch of you r sh adow-wrea th ed h an d ca n siphon lifeTh e touch of you r sh adow-wrea th ed h an d ca n siphon lifeforce from oth ers to heal you r w ou n ds. Make a m eleespell attack against a crea tu re within you r reach. Ona hit, the target takes 3d6 n ecrotic dam age, and youregain hit poin ts equ al to h a lf the am ount of n ecroticda m age dealt. Until the spell ends, you ca n m ake theattack again on ea ch of you r turns as an action.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
CalmEmotions;2;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attem pt to su ppress stron g em otion s in a groupYou attem pt to su ppress stron g em otion s in a groupof people. E a ch h u m an oid in a 20-foot-radiu s sph erecen tered on a poin t you ch oose within ran ge m ust m akea Ch arism a saving th row a creatu re ca n ch oose tofail th is saving th row if it w ish es. If a creatu re fails itssaving throw, ch oose on e of the followin g two effects.You ca n su ppress any effect ca u sin g a target to bech a rm ed or frightened. W h en this spell ends, anysu ppressed effect resu m es, provided that its durationhas not expired in the m eantim e.Alternatively, you ca n m ake a target in different aboutcrea tu res of you r ch oice that it is h ostile toward. Th isin differen ce en ds if the target is attacked or h a rm ed bya spell or if it w itn esses any of its frien ds bein g harm ed.W h en the spell ends, the crea tu re becom es h ostileagain, u n less the DM ru les oth erwise.
Precipitation;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;Stage ConditionStage Condition1 Clear2 Light clouds3 Overcast or ground fog4 Rain, hail, or snow5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard
Fly;3;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;a w in g feather from any bird;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You tou ch a willin g creatu re. The target gains a flyingYou tou ch a willin g creatu re. The target gains a flyingspeed of 60 feet for the duration. W h en the spell ends,the target falls if it is still aloft, u n less it ca n stop the fall.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target oneadditional creatu re for each slot level above 3rd.
MordenkainensMagnificentMansion;7;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;300 feet;V,S,M;a m iniature porta l ca rved fromivory, a sm all piece of polish ed m arble, and a tinysilver spoon , each item worth at least 5 gp;24 hours;-;You con ju re an extradim en sion al dwelling in ran geYou con ju re an extradim en sion al dwelling in ran gethat lasts for the duration. You ch oose wh ere its on een tran ce is located. Th e en tran ce sh im m ers faintlyand is 5 feet w ide and 10 feet tall. You and any creatu reyou design ate w h en you cast the spell ca n enter theextradim en sion al dwelling as lon g as the porta l rem ain sopen . You can open or close the porta l if you are within30 feet of it. W h ile closed, the porta l is invisible.Beyon d the portal is a m agn ificen t foyer withn u m erou s ch a m bers beyon d. Th e atm osph ere is clean,fresh, and warm .You ca n crea te any floor plan you like, but the spaceca n t exceed 50 cu bes, each cu be bein g 10 feet onea ch side. Th e pla ce is fu rn ish ed and decora ted asyou ch oose. It con tain s sufficient food to serve a nine-cou r se banquet for up to 100 people. A staff of 100near-transparent servan ts attends all w h o enter. You
OtilukesFreezingSphere;6;evocation;-;1 action;-;300 feet;V,S,M;a sm all crystal sphere;instant;-;A frigid globe of cold en ergy strea ks from you r fingertipsA frigid globe of cold en ergy strea ks from you r fingertipsto a poin t of you r ch oice within range, wh ere it explodesin a 60-foot-radiu s sphere. E a ch creatu re within thearea m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw. On afailed save, a creatu re takes 10d6 cold dam age. On asu ccessfu l save, it takes h a lf as m uch dam age.If the globe strikes a body of water or a liquid that isprin cipally water (not in cluding water-ba sed creatures),it fr eezes the liquid to a depth of 6 in ch es over an area30 feet square. Th is ice lasts for 1 m inute. Creaturesthat w ere swim m in g on the su rfa ce of frozen water aretrapped in the ice. A trapped creatu re can u se an actionto m ake a Stren gth ch eck against your spell save DCto break free.You can refrain from firing the globe after com pletin gthe spell, if you wish . A sm all globe about the size ofa slin g stone, cool to the touch, appears in you r hand.At any tim e, you or a creatu re you give the globe toca n th row the globe (to a range of 40 feet) or hurl itwith a slin g (to the slin gs n orm al range). It shatterson im pact, with the sa m e effect as the n orm al castin gof the spell. You ca n a lso set the globe down withoutshattering it. After 1 m inute, if the globe h asn t alreadyshattered, it explodes.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 7th level or higher, the da m age in cr ea ses by1d6 for each slot level above 6th.
Fabricate;4;transmutation;-;10 minutes;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You con vert raw m aterials into produ cts of the sa m eYou con vert raw m aterials into produ cts of the sa m em aterial. F or exam ple, you can fabricate a w oodenbridge from a clu m p of trees, a rope from a patch ofhem p, and cloth es from flax or wool.C h oose raw m aterials that you can see within range.You can fabricate a Large or sm aller object (contain edwithin a 10-foot cube, or eight con n ected 5-foot cubes),given a sufficient quantity of raw m aterial. If youare workin g with m etal, stone, or an oth er m ineralsu bsta n ce, however, the fabricated object can be n olarger than Medium (contain ed within a single 5-footcube). Th e quality of objects m ade by the spell iscom m en su ra te with the quality of the raw m aterials.Creatures or m a gic item s ca n t be created ortransmuted by this spell. You also ca n t u se it tocrea te item s that ordin arily requ ire a high degree ofcraftsm an sh ip, su ch as jewelry, wea pon s, glass, orarm or, u n less you have proficien cy with the type ofartisan s tools u sed to craft such objects.
Foresight;9;divination;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;a h u m m in gbird feather;8 hours;-;You touch a willin g creatu re and bestow a lim ited abilityYou touch a willin g creatu re and bestow a lim ited abilityto see into the im m edia te future. F or the duration, thetarget ca n t be su rprised and has advantage on attackrolls, ability ch ecks, and saving th rows. Additionally,oth er crea tu res have disadvantage on attack rollsagainst the target for the duration.Th is spell im m ediately en ds if you cast it again beforeits duration ends.
Suggestion;2;enchantment;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,M;a sn a kes ton gu e and either a bit ofh on eycom b or a drop of sweet oil;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 8 h ou rs'];You su ggest a cou r se of activity (lim ited to a sen ten ceYou su ggest a cou r se of activity (lim ited to a sen ten ceor two) and m a gica lly in flu ence a creatu re you cansee within ran ge that ca n h ear and understand you.Creatu res that ca n t be ch a rm ed are im m u n e to thiseffect. Th e su ggestion m ust be w orded in su ch a m ann eras to m ake the cou r se of action sou n d reason able.Askin g the creatu re to stab itself, th row itself ontoa spear, im m olate itself, or do som e oth er obviou slyh arm fu l act en ds the spell.Th e target m ust m ake a W isdom saving throw. On afailed save, it pu rsu es the cou r se of action you describedto the best of its ability. Th e su ggested cou r se of actioncan con tin u e for the entire duration. If the su ggestedactivity ca n be com pleted in a sh orter tim e, the spellen ds w h en the su bject fin ish es what it w a s asked to do.You can also specify con dition s that will trigger aspecia l activity du ring the duration. For exam ple, youm ight su ggest that a knight give her wa rh orse to thefirst begga r sh e m eets. If the con dition isn t m et beforethe spell expires, the activity isn t perform ed.If you or any of your com pa n ion s da m age the target,the spell ends.
GiantInsect;4;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You tran sform up to ten cen tipedes, th ree spiders, fiveYou tran sform up to ten cen tipedes, th ree spiders, fivewa sps, or on e scor pion within ran ge into giant version sof their natural form s for the duration. A cen tipedebecom es a giant cen tipede, a spider becom es a giantspider, a wa sp becom es a giant wasp, and a scor pionbecom es a giant scorpion .E a ch crea tu re obeys you r verbal com m a n ds, andin com ba t, they act on you r turn ea ch round. Th e DMh as the statistics for th ese crea tu res and resolves theira ction s and m ovem ent.A creatu re rem ain s in its giant size for the duration,until it drops to 0 hit points, or until you u se an action todism iss the effect on it.Th e DM m ight allow you to ch oose different targets.F or exam ple, if you tran sform a bee, its giant versionm ight have the sa m e statistics as a giant wasp.
MagicMissile;1;evocation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You create th ree glowin g darts of m a gica l force. E achYou create th ree glowin g darts of m a gica l force. E achdart hits a creatu re of your ch oice that you ca n seewithin range. A dart dea ls 1d4 + 1 force da m age to itstarget. Th e darts all strike sim ultaneously, and you candirect th em to hit on e creatu re or several.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2n d level or higher, the spell crea tes onem ore dart for each slot level above 1st.
Cloudkill;5;conjuration;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 10 m inutes'];You create a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere of poison ou s, yellow-You create a 20-foot-radiu s sph ere of poison ou s, yellow-green fog cen tered on a point you ch oose within range.Th e fog sprea ds arou nd corn ers. It lasts for the durationor until stron g w in d disperses the fog, en din g the spell.Its area is heavily obscu red.W h en a creatu re enters the spells area for the firsttim e on a turn or starts its turn there, that creatu re m ustm ake a Constitution saving throw. Th e crea tu re takes5d8 poison da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m uchda m age on a su ccessfu l one. Creatures are affectedeven if they h old their breath or don t n eed to breathe.Th e fog m oves 10 feet away from you at the startof ea ch of your turns, rollin g alon g the su rfa ce of theground. Th e vapors, bein g heavier than air, sink to thelowest level of the land, even pou rin g down open in gs.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 6th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by1d8 for ea ch slot level above 5th.
DispelMagic;3;abjuration;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;C h oose on e creatu re, object, or m a gica l effect withinC h oose on e creatu re, object, or m a gica l effect withinrange. An y spell of 3rd level or lower on the target ends.F or each spell of 4th level or h igher on the target, m akean ability ch eck u sin g you r spellcastin g ability. TheDC equ als 10 + the spells level. On a su ccessfu l check,the spell ends.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 4th level or higher, you autom atically endthe effects of a spell on the target if the spells level isequal to or less than the level of the spell slot you used.
Disintegrate;6;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;a lodeston e and a pin ch of dust;instant;-;A thin green ray sprin gs from your poin ting finger to aA thin green ray sprin gs from your poin ting finger to atarget that you can see within range. Th e target ca n be acreatu re, an object, or a crea tion of m a gica l force, suchas the wall crea ted by  wall of force.A creatu re targeted by this spell m ust m ake aDexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes10d6 + 40 force dam age. If this da m age r edu ces thetarget to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated.A disintegrated creatu re and everyth in g it is wearin gand carryin g, except m a gic item s, are redu ced to a pileof fine gray dust. Th e creatu re ca n be restored to lifeon ly by m ea n s of a  true resurrection or a  wish spell.Th is spell autom atically disintegrates a Large orsm aller n on m a gica l object or a crea tion of m a gica lforce. If the target is a H uge or larger object or creationof force, this spell disintegrates a 10-foot-cu be portion ofit. A m a gic item is u naffected by this spell.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast th is spell u sin g aspell slot of 7th level or higher, the da m age in crea ses by3d6 for each slot level above 6th.
PowerWordHeal;9;evocation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;A wave of h ealin g en ergy w a sh es over the creatu reA wave of h ealin g en ergy w a sh es over the creatu reyou touch. Th e target rega in s all its hit points. If thecreatu re is ch a rm ed, frightened, paralyzed, or stunned,the con dition ends. If the creatu re is prone, it can u se itsreaction to stan d up. Th is spell h as n o effect on undeador con stru cts.
Sunburst;8;evocation;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;fire and a piece of sunstone;instant;-;Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius cen teredBrilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius cen teredon a point you ch oose within range. E a ch creatu re inthat light m ust m ake a Constitution saving throw. On afailed save, a creatu re takes 12d6 radiant da m age and isblin ded for 1 minute. On a su ccessfu l save, it takes h a lfas m u ch da m age and isnt blin ded by this spell. Undeadand oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.A creatu re blin ded by this spell m a kes anotherConstitution saving th row at the en d of each of its turns.On a su ccessfu l save, it is n o lon ger blinded.Th is spell dispels any da rkn ess in its area that wascrea ted by a spell.
AntimagicField;8;abjuration;-;1 action;-;self;V,S,M;a pin ch of pow der ed iron oriron filings;1 round;-;A 10-foot-radius invisible sph ere of an tim agic su rrou n dsA 10-foot-radius invisible sph ere of an tim agic su rrou n dsyou. Th is area is divorced from the m a gica l en ergy thatsu ffu ses the m ultiverse. With in the sphere, spells ca n tbe cast, su m m on ed crea tu res disappear, and even m a gicitem s becom e m undane. Until the spell ends, the sph erem oves with you, cen tered on you.Spells and oth er m a gica l effects, except th ose createdby an artifact or a deity, are su ppressed in the sph ereand ca n t protru de into it. A slot expen ded to casta su ppressed spell is con su m ed. W h ile an effect issu ppressed, it doesn t fu nction , but the tim e it spen dssu ppressed cou n ts against its duration.Targeted E ffects. Spells and oth er m a gica l effects,su ch as  m agic m issile an d  charm person , that targeta creatu re or an object in the sph ere have n o effecton that target.Areas o f Magic. Th e area of another spell or m agicaleffect, su ch as  fireball, ca n t extend into the sphere.If the sph ere overlaps an area of m agic, the part ofthe area that is covered by the sph ere is su ppressed.F or exam ple, the fla m es crea ted by a  wall of fire aresu ppressed within the sphere, creatin g a gap in the wallif the overlap is large en ough.Spells. An y active spell or oth er m a gica l effect on acreatu re or an object in the sph ere is su ppressed wh ilethe crea tu re or object is in it.Magic Item s. Th e properties and pow ers ofm a gic item s are su ppressed in the sphere. Forexam ple, a  +1 longsword in the sph ere fu n ction s as an on m a gica l lon gsword.A m a gic w ea pon s properties and pow ers aresu ppressed if it is u sed against a target in the sph ere orwielded by an attacker in the sphere. If a m a gic w ea ponor a piece of m a gic am m u nition fully leaves the sph ere(for exam ple, if you fire a m a gic a rrow or th row a m agicspea r at a target outside the sphere), the m a gic of theitem cea ses to be su ppressed as soon as it exits.Magical Travel. Teleportation and planar travelfail to w ork in the sphere, wh eth er the sph ere is thedestin ation or the depa rtu re poin t for su ch m a gica ltravel. A portal to an oth er location , world, or plane ofexisten ce, as well as an open in g to an extradim en sion alspa ce su ch as that created by the  rope trick spell,tem porarily closes wh ile in the sphere.Creatures and Objects. A creatu re or objectsu m m on ed or crea ted by m a gic tem porarily win ks outof existen ce in the sphere. Su ch a crea tu re instantlyrea ppea rs on ce the spa ce the crea tu re occu pied is nolon ger within the sphere.Dispel Magic. Spells and m a gica l effects su ch asdispel m agic have n o effect on the sphere. Likewise, thesph eres created by different  antim agic field spells don tnullify each other.A n t i p a t h y /S y m p a t h y8 th-level enchantmentCasting Tim e: 1 h ou rRange: 60 feetCom ponents: V, S, M (either a lum p of alum soa k ed invinegar for the  antipathy effect or a drop of h on ey forthe  sym pathy effect)Duration: 10 daysTh is spell attracts or repels crea tu res of you r ch oice.You target som eth in g within range, either a H u ge orsm aller object or creatu re or an area that is n o largerthan a 200-foot cube. Th en sp ecify a kind of intelligentcreatu re, su ch as red dragon s, goblin s, or vam pires.You invest the target with an aura that either attracts orrepels the specified crea tu res for the duration. Ch ooseantipathy or sym pathy as the auras effect.Antipathy. Th e en ch an tm ent ca u ses crea tu res of thekind you design ated to feel an intense urge to leave thearea an d avoid the target. W h en su ch a creatu re cansee the target or com es within 60 feet of it, the creatu rem ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row or becom efrightened. Th e crea tu re rem ain s frigh ten ed wh ile it cansee the target or is within 60 feet of it. W h ile frigh ten edby the target, the crea tu re m ust u se its m ovem en t tom ove to the n earest safe spot from wh ich it ca n t seethe target. If the creatu re m oves m ore than 60 feet fromthe target and ca n t see it, the crea tu re is n o lon gerfrightened, but the crea tu re becom es frigh ten ed again ifit rega in s sight of the target or m oves within 60 feet of it.Sympathy. Th e en ch an tm ent ca u ses the specifiedcrea tu res to feel an intense urge to approa ch the targetwh ile within 60 feet of it or able to see it. Wh en su ch acreatu re ca n see the target or com es within 60 feet of it,the creatu re m ust su cceed on a W isdom saving th row oru se its m ovem en t on ea ch of its turns to enter the areaor m ove within reach of the target. W h en the creatu rehas don e so, it ca n t willin gly m ove away from the target.If the target da m a ges or oth erwise h arm s an affectedcreatu re, the affected creatu re ca n m ake a W isdomsaving th row to en d the effect, as descr ibed below.Ending the Effect. If an affected creatu re en ds itsturn wh ile not with in 60 feet of the target or able to seeit, the creatu re m a kes a W isdom saving throw. On asu ccessfu l save, the creatu re is n o lon ger affected bythe target and r ecogn izes the feelin g of repu gn a n ce orattraction as m agical. In addition, a crea tu re affected bythe spell is allowed an oth er W isdom saving th row every24 h ou rs wh ile the spell persists.A crea tu re that su ccessfu lly saves against this effectis im m u n e to it for 1 minute, after wh ich tim e it ca n beaffected again.
CrusadersMantle;3;evocation;-;1 action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;H oly pow er radiates from you in an aura with a 30-footH oly pow er radiates from you in an aura with a 30-footradius, awaken in g boldn ess in friendly crea tu res. Untilthe spell ends, the aura m oves with you, cen tered onyou. W h ile in the aura, ea ch n on h ostile creatu re in theaura (including you) deals an extra 1d4 radiant dam agewh en it hits with a w ea pon attack.
RopeTrick;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;touch;V,S,M;powdered corn extract and atwisted loop of parchm ent;1 hour;-;You tou ch a length of rope that is up to 60 feet long.You tou ch a length of rope that is up to 60 feet long.One en d of the r ope then rises into the air until thewh ole r ope h an gs perpen dicu la r to the grou nd. At theu pper en d of the rope, an invisible en tran ce open s to anextradim en sion al spa ce that lasts until the spell ends.Th e extradim en sion al spa ce ca n be reach ed byclim bin g to the top of the rope. Th e spa ce ca n h old asm any as eight Mediu m or sm aller creatu res. Th e ropeca n be pu lled into the space, m a kin g the rope disappea rfrom view outside the space.Attacks and spells ca n t cr oss th rough the en tran ceinto or out of the extradim en sion al space, but th osein side can see out of it as if th rough a 3-foot-by-5-footw in dow cen tered on the rope.An yth ing inside the extradim en sion al spa ce dr ops outwh en the spell ends.
PowerWordStun;8;enchantment;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You spea k a w ord of pow er that ca n overwh elm theYou spea k a w ord of pow er that ca n overwh elm them in d of on e crea tu re you ca n see within range, leavingit du m bfoun ded. If the target has 150 hit poin ts or fewer,it is stunned. Oth erwise, the spell has n o effect.Th e stu n n ed target m ust m ake a Constitution savingth row at the en d of ea ch of its turns. On a su ccessfu lsave, this stun n in g effect ends.
FireStorm;7;evocation;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A storm m ade up of sh eets of roarin g flam e appearsA storm m ade up of sh eets of roarin g flam e appearsin a loca tion you ch oose within range. Th e area of thestorm con sists of up to ten 10-foot cu bes, wh ich you canarrange as you wish . E ach cu be m ust have at least on efa ce adjacent to the fa ce of an oth er cu be. E a ch creatu rein the area m ust m ake a Dexterity saving throw. Ittakes 7d10 fire da m age on a failed save, or h a lf as m uchda m age on a su ccessfu l one.Th e fire da m a ges objects in the area and ignitesflam m able objects that arent bein g worn or carried.If you ch oose, plant life in the area is unaffectedby this spell.
AnimalShapes;8;transmutation;-;1 action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;concentration;['Duration: Concentration', ' up to 24 h ou rs'];Your m a gic turns oth ers into beasts. C h oose anyYour m a gic turns oth ers into beasts. C h oose anynum ber of willin g crea tu res that you ca n see withinrange. You tran sform each target into the form of aLarge or sm aller bea st with a ch a llen ge rating of 4 orlower. On su bsequ en t turns, you ca n u se you r action totran sform affected crea tu res into n ew form s.Th e tran sform ation lasts for the duration for eachtarget, or until the target dr ops to 0 hit poin ts or dies.You ca n ch oose a different form for each target. Atargets gam e statistics are repla ced by the statistics ofthe ch osen beast, th ou gh the target retains its alignm entand Intelligence, W isdom , and Ch arism a scor es. Th etarget a ssu m es the hit poin ts of its n ew form , and wh enit reverts to its n orm al form , it retu rn s to the n u m berof hit poin ts it had before it tran sform ed. If it reverts asa result of droppin g to 0 hit points, any excess da m ageca rries over to its n orm al form . As lon g as the excessda m age d oesn t r edu ce the crea tu res n orm al form to 0hit points, it isn t k n ock ed u n con sciou s. Th e crea tu re islim ited in the a ction s it ca n perform by the nature of itsn ew form , and it ca n t spea k or cast spells.Th e targets gear m elds into the n ew form . Th e targetca n t activate, wield, or oth erwise benefit from any ofits equipm ent.
HealingWord;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;A creatu re of you r ch oice that you can see within rangeA creatu re of you r ch oice that you can see within rangerega in s hit poin ts equ al to 1d4 + you r spellcastin gability m odifier. Th is spell h as n o effect on undeador con stru cts.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, the h ealin g in cr ea ses by1d4 for each slot level above 1st.
TrueResurrection;9;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;a sprin kle of holy water anddia m on ds worth at least 25,000 gp, wh ich thespell con su m es;instant;-;You tou ch a creatu re that has been dead for n o lon gerYou tou ch a creatu re that has been dead for n o lon gerthan 200 yea rs and that died for any r ea son exceptold age. If the crea tu res sou l is free and willing, thecrea tu re is restored to life with all its hit points.Th is spell closes all w ou n ds, n eu tra lizes any poison ,cu res all disea ses, and lifts any cu r ses affecting thecrea tu re w h en it died. Th e spell repla ces da m aged orm issin g orga n s and lim bs.Th e spell ca n even provide a n ew body if the originaln o lon ger exists, in w h ich ca se you m ust spea k thecrea tu res nam e. Th e crea tu re then appears in anu n occu pied spa ce you ch oose within 10 feet of you.
StaggeringSmite;4;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Th e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a m elee wea ponTh e next tim e you hit a creatu re with a m elee wea ponattack du rin g this spells duration, your w ea pon piercesboth body and m ind, and the attack deals an extra4d6 psych ic da m age to the target. Th e target mustm ake a W isdom saving throw. On a failed save, it hasdisadvantage on attack rolls and ability ch eck s, andcan t take reaction s, until the en d of its next turn.
MoveEarth;6;transmutation;-;1 action;-;120 feet;V,S,M;an iron blade and a sm all bagcon tain in g a m ixtu re of soilsclay, loam , and sand;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 2 h ou rs'];C h oose an area of terrain n o larger than 40 feet on aC h oose an area of terrain n o larger than 40 feet on aside with in range. You ca n resh a pe dirt, sand, or clayin the area in any m a n n er you ch oose for the duration.You ca n raise or lower the areas elevation, create or fillin a trench, erect or flatten a wall, or form a pillar. Theextent of any su ch ch a n ges ca n t exceed h a lf the areaslargest dim en sion . So, if you affect a 40-foot square,you ca n create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lowerthe squ a res elevation by up to 20 feet, dig a tren ch upto 20 feet deep, an d so on. It takes 10 m inutes for th esech a n ges to com plete.At the en d of every 10 m inu tes you spen dcon cen tra tin g on the spell, you ca n ch oose a n ew area ofterrain to affect.Beca u se the terrains tran sform ation occu r s slowly,crea tu res in the area ca n t usually be trapped or injuredby the grou n ds m ovem ent.Th is spell ca n t m anipulate natural stone orston e con stru ction . R ock s and stru ctu res shift toa ccom m oda te the n ew terrain. If the way you sh apethe terrain wou ld m ake a stru ctu re unstable, itm ight colla pse.Sim ilarly, this spell d oesn t directly affect plantgrowth. Th e m oved earth ca rries any plants along with it.
Feeblemind;8;enchantment;-;1 action;-;150 feet;V,S,M;a handful of clay, crystal, glass,or m ineral spheres;instant;-;You blast the m ind of a creatu re that you ca n see withinYou blast the m ind of a creatu re that you ca n see withinrange, attem pting to shatter its intellect and personality.Th e target ta kes 4d6 psych ic da m age and m ust m ake anIn telligence saving throw.On a failed save, the crea tu res In telligen ce andCh arism a scor es becom e 1. Th e creatu re ca n t castspells, activate m a gic item s, u nderstan d language, orcom m u n ica te in any intelligible way. Th e crea tu re can,however, identify its friends, follow them , and evenprotect them .At the end of every 30 days, the creatu re can repeatits saving th row against this spell. If it su cceeds on itssaving throw, the spell ends.Th e spell can a lso be en ded by  greater restoration,heal, or  wish.
MelfsAcidArrow;2;evocation;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;pow dered rhubarb lea f and anadders stom ach ;instant;-;A sh im m erin g green a rrow strea ks toward a targetA sh im m erin g green a rrow strea ks toward a targetwithin ran ge and bu rsts in a spray of acid. Make aran ged spell attack against the target. On a hit, thetarget takes 4d4 acid da m age im m ediately and 2d4 acidda m age at the en d of its next turn. On a m iss, the arrowsplash es the target with acid for h alf as m uch of theinitial da m age and no da m age at the en d of its next turn.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sing aspell slot of 3rd level or higher, the da m age (both initialand later) in crea ses by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.
Sleep;1;enchantment;-;1 action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;a pin ch of fine sand, r ose petals,or a cricket;1 minutes;-;Th is spell sen ds crea tu res into a m a gica l slum ber.Th is spell sen ds crea tu res into a m a gica l slum ber.Roll 5d8 the total is h ow m any hit poin ts of crea tu resthis spell can affect. Creatures within 20 feet ofa point you ch oose with in ran ge are affected ina scen din g order of their current hit poin ts (ign orin gu n con sciou s creatures).Startin g with the crea tu re that h as the lowest currenthit points, each crea tu re affected by this spell fallsu n con sciou s until the spell en ds, the sleeper takesdam age, or som eon e u ses an action to sh ake or slap thesleeper awake. Su btract each crea tu res hit poin ts fromthe total before m ovin g on to the crea tu re with the nextlowest hit points. A crea tu res hit poin ts m ust be equalto or less than the rem ain in g total for that creatureto be affected.Undead and crea tu res im m u n e to bein g ch a rm eda ren t affected by this spell.A t H igher L evels. Wh en you cast this spell u sin g aspell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d8 forea ch slot level above 1st.
Levitate;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;either a sm all leather loop or apiece of golden wire bent into a cup sh ape with a lon gsh an k on on e end;concentration;['Duration: Con centration ', ' up to 10 m inutes'];One crea tu re or object of you r ch oice that you ca n seeOne crea tu re or object of you r ch oice that you ca n seewithin ran ge rises vertically, up to 20 feet, and rem ainssu spen ded th ere for the duration. Th e spell can levitatea target that w eigh s up to 500 pou n ds. An u nwillingcrea tu re that su cceed s on a Constitution saving th rowis unaffected.Th e target ca n m ove on ly by pu sh in g or pullingagainst a fixed object or su rfa ce with in reach (such asa wall or a ceilin g), wh ich allows it to m ove as if it wereclim bin g. You ca n ch a n ge the targets altitude by up to20 feet in either direction on your turn. If you are thetarget, you ca n m ove up or down as part of you r m ove.Oth erwise, you ca n u se you r action to m ove the target,wh ich m ust rem ain within the spells range.W h en the spell ends, the target floats gently to thegrou n d if it is still aloft.
ConjureFey;6;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You su m m on a fey crea tu re of ch a llen ge rating 6 orYou su m m on a fey crea tu re of ch a llen ge rating 6 orlower, or a fey spirit that takes the form of a bea st ofch a llen ge rating 6 or lower. It appears in an u n occu piedspa ce that you can see within range. Th e fey creaturedisa ppea rs when it drops to 0 hit poin ts or wh enthe spell ends.The fey creatu re is friendly to you and yourcom pa n ion s for the duration. Roll initiative for thecreatu re, wh ich h as its own turns. It obeys any verbalcom m a n ds that you issu e to it (no action requ iredby you), as lon g as they dont violate its alignm ent. Ifyou don t issu e any com m a n ds to the fey creature, itdefen ds itself from h ostile crea tu res but oth erwisetakes n o actions.If you r con cen tra tion is broken, the fey creatu red oesn t disappear. Instead, you lose con trol of thefey creature, it becom es h ostile toward you and yourcom pa n ion s, and it m ight attack. An u n con trolled feycreatu re can t be dism issed by you, and it disa ppea rs 1h ou r after you su m m on ed it.Th e DM has the fey crea tu res statistics.A t H igher L evels. W h en you cast this spell u singa spell slot of 7th level or higher, the challen ge ratingin crea ses by 1 for each slot level above 6th.
AlterSelf;2;transmutation;-;1 action;-;self;V,S;-;1 round;-;You assu m e a different form . Wh en you cast the spell,You assu m e a different form . Wh en you cast the spell,ch oose on e of the followin g options, the effects of wh ichlast for the duration of the spell. W h ile the spell lasts,you ca n en d on e option as an action to gain the benefitsof a different one.Aquatic Adaptation. You adapt you r body to anaquatic environm ent, sprou tin g gills and growin gw ebbin g between your fingers. You ca n breatheunderwater and gain a sw im m in g speed equ al to yourwa lkin g speed.Change Appearance. You tran sform you r appearan ce.You decide what you look like, in cluding your height,weight, facial features, sou n d of your voice, hair length,coloration , and distin gu ish in g ch aracteristics, if any.You ca n m ake you r self appear as a m em ber of anotherrace, th ou gh n on e of you r statistics change. You alsoca n t appear as a creatu re of a different size than you,and your ba sic sh ape stays the sam e if youre bipedal,you ca n t u se this spell to becom e quadrupedal, forin stan ce. At any tim e for the duration of the spell, youca n u se you r action to ch a n ge you r a ppea ra n ce inthis way again.Natural Weapons. You grow claws, fangs, spines,horn s, or a different natural w ea pon of you r ch oice. Youru n a rm ed strikes deal 1d6 bludgeon ing, piercing, orslash in g dam age, as appropriate to the natural wea ponyou ch ose, and you are proficient with you r u narm edstrikes. Finally, the natural wea pon is m a gic and youhave a +1 bon u s to the attack and da m age rolls youm ake u sin g it.
